                                        Preprint




                                        S ORRY DB: C AN AI P ROVERS C OMPLETE R EAL -
                                        W ORLD L EAN T HEOREMS ?

                                            Austin Letson1 , Leopoldo Sarra1 , Auguste Poiroux3,4 , Oliver Dressler , Paul Lezeau5,6 , Dhyan
                                            Aranha2,7 , Frederick Pu10 , Aaron Hill , Miguel Corredera Hidalgo8 , Julian Berman9 , George
                                                                          Tsoukalas11 , and Lenny Taelman2
                                                                                        1
                                                                                          Axiomatic AI
                                                                               2
                                                                                University of Amsterdam
                                                                                          3
                                                                                            Math, Inc.
                                                                                             4
                                                                                               EPFL
                                                                                     5




arXiv:2603.02668v1 [cs.AI] 3 Mar 2026
                                                                                       Imperial College
                                                                6
                                                                  The London School of Geometry and Number Theory
                                                                                7
                                                                                  Côte d’Azur University
                                                                       8
                                                                         ENSEIRB-MATMECA, INP-Bordeaux
                                                                                  9
                                                                                    Columbia University
                                                                                 10
                                                                                    University of Toronto
                                                                          11
                                                                             The University of Texas at Austin



                                                                                     A BSTRACT

                                                   We present SorryDB, a dynamically-updating benchmark of open Lean tasks
                                                   drawn from 78 real world formalization projects on GitHub. Unlike existing static
                                                   benchmarks, often composed of competition problems, hillclimbing the SorryDB
                                                   benchmark will yield tools that are aligned to the community needs, more us-
                                                   able by mathematicians, and more capable of understanding complex dependen-
                                                   cies. Moreover, by providing a continuously updated stream of tasks, SorryDB
                                                   mitigates test-set contamination and offers a robust metric for an agent’s abil-
                                                   ity to contribute to novel formal mathematics projects. We evaluate a collection
                                                   of approaches, including generalist large language models, agentic approaches,
                                                   and specialized symbolic provers, over a selected snapshot of 1000 tasks from
                                                   SorryDB. We show that current approaches are complementary: even though an
                                                   agentic approach based on Gemini Flash is the most performant, it is not strictly
                                                   better than other off-the-shelf large-language models, specialized provers, or even
                                                   a curated list of Lean tactics.


                                        1     I NTRODUCTION
                                        Formal methods recast theorem proving as the computational problem of synthesizing machine-
                                        verifiable proofs (Moura and Ullrich, 2021). Subsequently, a trusted kernel can automatically verify
                                        a formal solution and its error trace can be used to detect loopholes and hallucinations in reasoning.
                                        Recently, formal methods have gained renewed popularity in mathematics. In particular, large-scale
                                        formalization efforts using the Lean interactive theorem prover (Moura and Ullrich, 2021), such
                                        as the Liquid Tensor Experiment (Commelin and Topaz, 2023), Carleson’s theorem (Becker et al.,
                                        2025) and Fermat’s Last Theorem (Buzzard and Taylor, 2026), have shown that systematically for-
                                        malizing complete cutting-edge mathematical results is becoming feasible. Formalization improves
                                        collaboration among mathematicians, allowing them to unambiguously specify concepts of interest,
                                        reuse previously proven results, detect errors, and automatically validate a mathematical argument
                                        by checking its formalization, which for complex arguments can even decrease the costs of peer
                                        review (Hales, 2024; Robertson et al., 1997). Crucially, this work is rarely linear: mathematicians
                                        “prove in the open”, with dozens of contributors working asynchronously across a shared code base.
                                        In recent years, formal methods have also been adopted by researchers focusing on automated math-
                                        ematical reasoning. Outstanding results have been shown, for example, by achieving a performance


                                                                                           1
Preprint




                                                       Active formalization project



                             Lean4 Reservoir
                             Package Manager




                                                                         Task
                                   GitHub repository                     • URL
                                                                         • File
                                                                         • Position
                                                                         • Lean version   SorryDB



Figure 1: Dataset extraction pipeline for SorryDB. We consider 78 repositories on active GitHub
Lean projects and list all the theorems that contain a sorry. We save the metadata for each of them
and store it in the database. A project is considered active when it had at least one commit in the
previous three months.




that would deserve medals at the International Mathematical Olympiad (Hubert et al., 2025; Achim
et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2025b). Rather than only proposing the solution to a problem (Huang and
Yang, 2025), these models can also provide an automatically verifiable proof. This allows for post-
selecting correct solutions (Lin et al., 2025a), or even using the feedback as a strong reward signal
for reinforcement learning training (Lambert et al., 2025) with verifiable rewards (Ren et al., 2025;
Wang et al., 2025a).
State-of-the-art models are mainly being evaluated on competitive math datasets, for example, on
IMO and other olympiad-level mathematics, such as miniF2F (Zheng et al., 2021) or undergraduate-
level math challenges, such as PutnamBench (Tsoukalas et al., 2024). However, competitive math
is not fully aligned with practical applications, and, since it does not cover actual projects, it may
not be fully representative of the real challenges of formal theorem proving, including a broader
mathematical context, the dependence on theorems and definitions defined in the specific project
itself (Hu et al., 2025; Kumarappan et al., 2025), or simply the messiness that comes with fitting
solutions into real-world applications. Moreover, these benchmarks are essentially saturated, and it
becomes increasingly difficult to evaluate the performance of different automated theorem provers,
thus hindering progress in the field (Reuel et al., 2024). In addition, as the datasets are made public
and agentic systems using standard large language models (LLMs) are developed (Varambally et al.,
2025; Ospanov et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025c), it becomes challenging to detect solutions leakage
in training data and distinguish memorization from more general reasoning skills.
Active formalization projects offer an ideal test bed for addressing the limitations of current bench-
marks. Starting from an informal list of definitions and theorems that lead to the main result of
a project, developers first formalize the statements of theorems and their dependencies. Unproven
theorems or part of them are temporarily marked with a sorry placeholder. This process mostly
happens in open repositories on GitHub, in order to enable large scale collaboration, and provides a
steady supply of novel challenges that Lean practitioners have left for others, or their future selves,
to solve.
In this paper, we propose SorryDB, a new evaluation dataset based on real formalization projects.
This dataset is specifically meant to evaluate the practical usefulness of an automated theorem prover
by resembling the envisaged day-to-day usage. It also addresses the problem of saturation, mis-
alignment, and leakage of existing benchmarks. More specifically, we aim at replicating the spirit
of SWE-bench (Jimenez et al., 2024), meant for software engineering tasks, for theorem proving:
evaluate state-of-the-art models on tasks as close as possible to real applications that are valuable to
the community. Our main contributions are:


      1. The SorryDB Dataset: We design a procedure to select the parts of a theorem that have
         not been proven yet (i.e. marked with a “sorry”) from open-source Lean repositories and
         assemble them into a dynamically-evolving dataset, by construction aligned to practical
         applications, as shown in Figure 1.


                                                               2
Preprint




      2. Benchmarking Framework: We provide an automated validation mechanism to evaluate
         whether a proposed solution is correct or not and allow assessing the performance of an
         automated prover on the SorryDB dataset.
      3. Evaluation: We analyze a static snapshot of the dataset with 1000 tasks and a cutoff set to
         January 2026, and provide a baseline evaluation of a collection of models. We confirm that
         the proposed dataset provides useful feedback on practical usefulness of automated theorem
         provers, that it is not saturated yet, and we analyze the most common failure cases. The
         evaluation highlights that current models are complementary, solving different subsets of
         problems, and that overall the iterative feedback is the dominant factor in performance,
         with self-correcting and agentic approaches outperforming one-shot pass@k approaches.


2   BACKGROUND AND R ELATED W ORK

Interactive Theorem Provers. To create a formal proof for a mathematical result, the first step is
to convert the natural language statement into a formal language. The formal statement will define
precisely all the mathematical objects, include all the assumptions necessary to prove the theorem,
and clearly specify the target goal. Subsequently, the proof is provided, either by modifying the
goal step by step until it becomes a trivial consequence of the hypotheses or by directly instantiating
an object with the properties required by the goal. Libraries of definitions and proven theorems,
such as Mathlib (mathlib Community, 2020), help import the appropriate objects and build on top of
existing results. In Lean, it is also possible to write only the formal definition of a theorem, putting
a placeholder keyword, written as sorry, in place of the proof. In the context of formalization
projects, sorry statements are often left as work items to be completed later in the project.

Competition Math. Most common datasets to evaluate automated theorem provers focus on com-
petition math. The most popular are PutnamBench (Tsoukalas et al., 2024), focused on the Putnam
competition, a popular annual contest for undergraduate math students, and miniF2F (Zheng et al.,
2021), a curated collection of formalized olympiad-level math problems. DeepSeek ProverBench
contains hundreds of formalized problems from textbooks, tutorials, and AIME competitions (Ren
et al., 2025). Several other datasets exist, including ProofNet (Azerbayev et al., 2023) and IndiMath-
Bench (Biyani et al., 2025).
Since these datasets are focused on competitive math, they cover only a small segment of the real-
world use cases of formal methods. Moreover, nowadays they have been mostly saturated, and their
solutions may have been leaked in the training data of many off-the-shelf models.
The reduced performance of current state-of-the-art Lean theorem provers on tasks outside competi-
tion math has been documented in various works, for example, as the motivation for building datasets
focused on specific math fields, such as FATE, assessing the performance on frontier algebra (Jiang
et al., 2025) and LeanCAT, on category theory (Xu et al., 2025).

Formalization Projects. FormalML (Yang et al., 2025c) benchmarks fill-in-the-sorry tasks from
real Lean projects, mainly on two selected projects on optimization and probability theory.
RLMEval (Poiroux et al., 2025a) also evaluated neural theorem provers on six existing popular
Lean formalization projects, focusing on testing the ability to prove again the main theorems of the
formalization project. These are relatively small curated datasets on specific fields of mathematics.
Along these lines, we propose to systematically build a dataset on a larger-scale, explicitly meant
for theorem prover evaluation that resembles the day-to-day usage of a theorem prover by a Lean
developer.
Some other work has compiled a general dataset by scraping multiple repositories of Lean projects.
In particular, miniCTX (Hu et al., 2025) sources theorems from real projects and formalized text-
books. They also emphasize that a real theorem proving task requires local context and may be
much more difficult than proving a competition math theorem out of context. We propose to push
this assumption even further and build a much larger, dynamic dataset that contains theorems whose
solution has not yet even been published, mitigating data contamination risk, instead of trying to
prove again already established theorems.


                                                   3
Preprint




Benchmarking Practical Utility. The idea of using challenges from real applications is very pop-
ular for software engineering coding agents, e.g. SWE-bench (Jimenez et al., 2024; Yang et al.,
2024; Wang et al., 2025b). In this case, the task is to fix a given issue taken from a real GitHub
repository by submitting the equivalent of a pull request. Another example is CodeSearchNet (Hu-
sain et al., 2020) for the evaluation of semantic code search, containing millions of real world func-
tions associated with their documentation.

Open-source provers. Several models have been fine-tuned from general-purpose large language
models for theorem proving. In particular, Kimina Prover (Wang et al., 2025a), Goedel Prover (Lin
et al., 2025b) and DeepSeek Prover (Ren et al., 2025), employ reinforcement learning to learn to
prove formally. Hilbert (Varambally et al., 2025) uses an agentic decomposition harness, combin-
ing informal reasoning with formal proving, without training, that achieves strong performance in
competition problems.

Proprietary provers. AlphaProof (Hubert et al., 2025) was the first model to use Lean to prove
Olympiad-level problems using reinforcement-learning-driven search inspired by AlphaZero (Sil-
ver et al., 2017). Several theorem provers based on large language models have recently been
announced, including SeedProver V1.5 (Chen et al., 2025a), Aristotle (Achim et al., 2025), or Ax-
iom (Axiom, 2026). More recently, Logical Intelligence claims to have even saturated PutnamBench
with a performance of 99.4% (Logical Intelligence). These provers are often available in closed beta
programs with usage terms that would not allow running systematic evaluations.

3     S ORRY DB
In this section we detail SorryDB, which consists of both the dynamically updating benchmark, and
the framework that allows extraction and verification of solutions.

3.1   DATASET

We create SorryDB by extracting proof obligations, i.e. placeholder sorry keywords, from active
open-source Lean projects. They may be full unproven theorems or open intermediate steps within
a sketched proof.
We call the evaluation task fill in the sorry: provide the code with which we can replace a given
sorry keyword inside a theorem so that the specific proof obligation is properly completed. In
other words, in case a theorem contains multiple sorry statements, we do not require to prove the
entire theorem, but only the target one.
As shown in Figure 1, the dataset generation procedure consists in the following phases: repository
selection, where we select which projects to include; and extraction, where we extract and validate
all the extracted sorry statements.

Repository selection criteria. We consider GitHub repositories from Reservoir, the Lean package
registry (Lean Prover contributors, 2026). As a consequence, all included repositories satisfy its
inclusion criteria (Lean FRO, 2025), and most notably are licensed under a GitHub-recognized OSI-
approved license. In addition, we require that the project is still maintained by verifying that it has
been updated at least once since January 2025, and that its GitHub repository is public.
To obtain a large variety, SorryDB indexes sorry statements from a diverse set of 78 repositories
which broadly fall into the following manually handcrafted categories:

       • Pedagogical: Teaching materials, tutorials, course repositories, and learning resources.
       • Tooling: Lean-specific tools, utilities, and development aids (such as verso or duper (Tang,
         2025)).
       • Benchmark: AI evaluation datasets, benchmarks, and math competition problems (such
         as PutnamBench & miniF2F).
       • Library: Reusable mathematical or programming libraries (such as batteries, cslib, and
         mathlib4 (mathlib Community, 2020)).


                                                  4
Preprint




       • Formalization: Projects formalizing specific theorems or mathematical theories (such as
         FLT (Buzzard and Taylor, 2026) or Carleson (Becker et al., 2025)).

By including a variety of repositories from different categories, the dataset encompasses the full
range of incomplete Lean proofs that an AI system encounters in practice, with all the messiness
and differences in difficulty that come with this wide range of problems. For this reason, we also
include simpler or even trivial statements from educational repositories and appropriately categorize
their origin.

Task extraction. For each selected repository, the indexer extracts all sorry keywords and stores
identifying metadata, including tasks found on both main and work-in-progress branches. Subse-
quently, these candidates are filtered to ensure they can be reproduced. We then filter for tasks
that strictly require a proof and deduplicate them to keep only the most recent occurrence. See
Appendix E for full details of extraction, filtering and deduplication.

3.2   B ENCHMARKING USING S ORRY DB

We can use the SorryDB dataset for evaluating automated theorem provers. When evaluating a
proposal, we can deterministically validate it by checking if the code compiles and if the sorry
has been properly completed, without the need for a curated label. The evaluation metric is just the
average success rate of a model, i.e. the accuracy.
We provide an automated validation pipeline for the evaluation of each proposal. To verify that the
proposed solution for a given sorry keyword is correct, we replace the sorry with the proposal
and use LeanInteract (Poiroux et al., 2025b) to check the proof state at that specific location, and
validate that it compiles successfully without any sorry-like term in the final state. Just building
the Lean project is insufficient to verify that the sorry has been filled by the prover, because sorry
is syntactically valid in Lean. In addition, there are alternative keywords or constructs that can
have a similar effect to a sorry placeholder. Since the evaluation requires cloning and building
the specific project repository for each sorry, which can be space-intensive and time-consuming,
some engineering effort is required to run the dataset evaluation efficiently. Specifically, it is useful
to prepare all the repositories in advance so that they can be quickly instantiated for verifying a
specific proposal for the associated task.
We describe our implementation in more detail in Appendix G.

4     E XPERIMENTS
In our evaluation, we use SorryDB-2601, a snapshot of the SorryDB dataset created with the
procedure described in Section 3 with cutoff date on January 2026, thus named 2601. This dataset
contains 5663 sorry filling tasks from 78 repositories. In particular, for practicality, we focus on a
split of 1000 sorry statements, chosen to be the most recent according to the commit timestamp,
and with the constraint of maximizing the variety of repositories in the slice. The details of the
dataset with the distribution of tasks per category are shown in Appendix B. According to the needs,
alternative choices are possible: a larger time frame could have been chosen, or even the full dataset
could have been evaluated, obtaining a more precise but also more expensive and time-consuming
evaluation. See Appendix H for the specific procedure we used to select this set.
We consider several approaches ranging from deterministic tactics to general-purpose large language
models, specialized models and iterative or agentic architectures. For each class of methods, we
show a few representative models.
It is important to notice that the fill-in-the-sorry task requires filling a specific part of a theorem,
and not the full theorem itself, and requires strong understanding of the local proof context in the
proof and the more general project context. For these reasons, some provers may not support this
task because they were designed to complete only full theorems, making this task appear slightly
out-of-distribution.

Baseline tactics. A tactic is a short command or instruction that tells Lean how to construct a
proof step-by-step, rather than having to write out the complex logical terms manually. The sim-


                                                   5
Preprint




Table 1: Performance of various provers on a snapshot of 1000 tasks from SorryDB-2601. Tactics
are deterministic and thus only evaluated once. General-purpose and specialized models are evalu-
ated by sampling once (pass@1) or by checking if any of 32 candidates solve the task (pass@32).
Self-correcting (SC) or Agentic approaches run for up to 16 iterations. The row labelled as “Com-
bined” shows how many tasks have been solved at least once across the proposals by all the provers.
Since it is the largest value, it highlights the complementarity of the considered provers.

                                     A PPROACH                                          PASS @1            PASS @32
                                     Deterministic
                                       T RIVIAL                                             2.1 %                 N/A
                                       TACTICS                                              8.4 %                 N/A

                                     General-purpose LLM
                                       GPT 5.2                                               6.2 %              13.2 %
                                       C LAUDE O PUS 4.5                                    7.8 %               15.4 %
                                       G EMINI F LASH 3                                     10.8 %              20.5 %
                                       G EMINI P RO 3                                       11.0 %              20.5 %
                                       Q WEN 3                                              5.0 %                8.1 %
                                     Specialized LLM
                                       K IMINA P ROVER 8B                                   1.0 %                6.6 %
                                       G OEDEL P ROVER V2 32B                               2.7%                11.3 %
                                     Iterative
                                        C LAUDE O PUS 4.5 (SC)                              27.1 %                N/A
                                        G EMINI F LASH 3 (SC)                               27.9 %                N/A
                                        G EMINI F LASH 3 ( AGENTIC )                        30.3 %                N/A

                                     C OMBINED                                                      35.7 %


                   100      Gemini Flash 3 (SC)             Gemini Pro 3                     GPT 5.2                     Kimina 8B         Tactics




Success Rate (%)
                            Gemini Flash 3 (agentic)        Claude Opus 4.5 (SC)             Goedel Prover V2            Qwen 3            Combined
                   75       Gemini Flash 3                  Claude Opus 4.5

                   50
                   25
                    0
                         pedagogical                   tooling              benchmark                       library                  formalization
                           (n=216)                     (n=85)                      (n=48)                       (n=89)                  (n=559)

Figure 2: Success rate of different provers split by repository category. We compare general purpose
LLMs, specialized models (pass@32), self-correcting (SC) and agentic approaches (16 iterations).
We see that tasks from pedagogical repositories are easier to prove, while those from math formal-
ization projects are harder. A specialized prover such as Goedel Prover works relatively better on
benchmark repositories but has worse performance on other project types.


plest prover we consider is the trivial tactic, capable of solving extremely simple theorems
where the proof is a trivial reformulation of the goal. We consider also other deterministic tactics
such as ring, linarith, norm_num, and more advanced approaches such as simp or grind
(de Moura, 2025). grind serves as a high-powered, general-purpose automation engine, using
SMT-based techniques to solve complex problems. See Appendix I for a full analysis of the deter-
ministic approaches.


Foundation models. We consider state-of-the-art general-purpose large language models such as
Claude Opus 4.5 (Anthropic, 2025), Gemini Flash 3 (Comanici et al., 2025), GPT 5.2 (OpenAI,
2025). We also consider Qwen 3 (Yang et al., 2025a) as an example of open-weight model. Foun-
dation models are trained on very large amounts of data and are known for their flexibility and
generalization capabilities outside of their specific training domain.


                                                                             6
Preprint




Specialized models. We also include models specifically trained for automated theorem solving,
such as Kimina-prover (Wang et al., 2025a) and Goedel-Prover V2 (Lin et al., 2025b). We select
specifically these two specialized provers because they have good performance on competitive math
datasets, are available open source, and are compatible with the fill-in-the-sorry task.

Self-correcting and agentic approaches. We consider self-correcting approaches in which we
sample each model iteratively up to 16 times. For every proposal, a deterministic reviewer inserts
the solution into the project and tests for compilation errors. In case of failure, it returns the build
error message as a feedback for the next iteration. In addition, we implement a simple baseline
agentic approach inspired by most popular implementations (Jiang et al., 2023; Varambally et al.,
2025; Cao et al., 2025). In particular, it includes a Proposer, tasked to provide a solution for the
given task, and a deterministic reviewer, like in the pure self-correcting mode. The Proposer has a
ReAct-style (Yao et al., 2023) architecture with a library search tool, LeanSearch (Gao et al., 2025).
The proposer uses Gemini Flash 3 with a dynamic thinking budget and 5 rounds of tool calls at each
iteration.

4.1   R ESULTS

We evaluate the approaches based on language-models without self-correction with pass@32, while
self-correcting models can run up to 16 iterations. We do not evaluate the tactics multiple times,
as their outcome is deterministic. Performance is shown in Table 1. By looking at the results, we
immediately notice that the feedback from the build output, which, in case of errors, includes the
state before the failure and the error message, is extremely useful for the models we tested. As
emphasized by Figure 3a, with just 16 model calls, iterative approaches strongly outperform any
single-shot approach, even if considering pass@k with double the number of calls. In other words,
when working with SorryDB, access to the project environment and having the possibility to compile
it to test a proposed solution is much more helpful than longer reasoning budget or fine-tuning on
specific datasets.
Figure 2 shows that performance is generally higher in pedagogical repositories and repositories
that contain existing benchmark problems. After all, pedagogical repositories often contain theo-
rems that can be solved in a few steps, or even already exist as proven theorems in Mathlib, while
benchmark problems are a common target for reasoning evaluation, and recent models may have
trained on them. Goedel Prover V2 performs relatively better on benchmark repositories. In addi-
tion to traditional competitive math benchmarks, we also include code generation benchmarks (Ye
et al., 2025).
By inspecting the distribution of solved proofs per prover, we observe that aggregating solutions
across provers increases the total number of solved tasks. This indicates that provers are comple-
mentary: each succeeds on a different subset of problems, and even the strongest prover fails on
instances that others can solve. A qualitative example of this is shown in Appendix A.
Moreover, we notice that without library search, provers struggle to find theorems on their own.
Finally, we notice that specialized models have been trained on old Lean versions, and the version
mismatch could be a reason for their weaker performance.
Furthermore, their RL training focused on competition math and this may explain the difficulty
generalizing to other domains. Also, theorem provers specifically trained for solving entire theorems
may find the fill-in-the-sorry task slightly out of domain.


5     D ISCUSSION

SorryDB scrapes open proof obligations (i.e. sorry statements) in active Lean formalization
projects, with an emphasis on projects that received commits within some recent timeframe. This
choice is made to promote the selection of projects that are still under development. This design
ensures that the benchmark keeps targeting new and unsolved tasks, rather than problems that are
already well-supported by current available proof automation. In practice, this means that each
sorry represents a proof obligation that contributors have chosen not to discharge immediately,
probably because it would require nontrivial insight, missing lemmas, or substantial refactoring. As


                                                   7
    Preprint




                                                                                                                                     21
                                                                                                                              20.0                                  formalization
                                                                                                                              17.5        17                        pedagogical
                                                                                                                                               15                   benchmark
                                                                                                                              15.0



                                                                                                          Count by category
                                                                                                                                                                    tooling
                                                                                                                              12.5                                  library
                                                                                                                              10.0
                               Claude Opus 4.5          Gemini Flash 3 (SC)                                                                         8   8
                               Gemini Flash 3           GPT 5.2                                                                7.5
                                                                                                                                                            6   6
                               Goedel Prover V2         Gemini Flash 3 (agentic)
                               Gemini Pro 3             Kimina 8B                                                              5.0
                               Qwen 3                   Claude Opus 4.5 (SC)                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                               2.5                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                             1   1
                 300
                                                                                                                               0.0
                 250
                                                                                                                     Tactics


Sorries Solved
                 200
                                                                                                         Kimina 8B
                 150
                                                                                                                  Qwen 3
                 100
                                                                                                  Goedel Prover V2
                  50                                                                               Claude Opus 4.5
                   0                                                                                 Gemini Flash 3
                       1   4   7     10    13     16   19    22     25     28      31
                                            Sample Proofs                                              Gemini Pro 3
    (a) Number of solved tasks by number of LLM                                               Claude Opus 4.5 (SC)
    calls. Iterative sampling (self-correcting or agentic)                                      Gemini Flash 3 (SC)
    is much more efficient than parallel sampling.                                          Gemini Flash 3 (agentic)

                                                                                            (b) Upset plot of sorries solved by each model. Each
                                                                                            column represents the number of theorems solved by
                                                                                            all the provers marked in the table with a black circle,
                                                                                            and not solved by the others. Deterministic tactics
                                                                                            solve some sorries that none of the LLM-based ap-
                                                                                            proaches could solve.

    Figure 3: Analysis of prover complementarity. (a) Iterative approaches with error feedback strongly
    outperform parallel sampling with the same number of calls. (b) Different provers solve different
    subsets of problems, indicating complementarity.


    a result, it is reasonable to expect that each task is, by construction, a meaningful unit of work for
    evaluating automated theorem provers. As automated theorem proving improves and these tools are
    used to solve sorries, the remaining ones naturally become more challenging, allowing SorryDB
    to adapt to the current state of the art and remain a moving benchmark that scales with progress
    rather than becoming saturated. In other words, this is an evolving dataset: while we analyze a
    static snapshot in our evaluations, we plan to take new snapshots of the dataset, for example, on
    a monthly basis. As a consequence, SorryDB will not be saturated: as new theorem provers are
    released, mathematicians adopt them, and the difficulty of recent sorry filling tasks will increase.
    One drawback of this approach is not knowing the best possible performance on a snapshot: we
    measure the relative performance among provers, but we do not know how many tasks are actually
    unsolvable because they are unprovable. Trying to prove the negation of the goal for tasks without
    known solution could be a way to estimate this in the future. Moreover, we could adopt in the
    future an Elo score (Király and Qian, 2017), such as that used in CodeClash (Yang et al., 2025b),
    to emphasize that the evaluation score is relative. As a future step, we plan to set up a leaderboard
    to help comparing the performance of the various state of the art models, and regularly provide an
    updated snapshot of the dataset.

    Limitations.                   Regarding current limitations, there are a few directions open to future improve-
    ments.
    First, despite the broader variety of repositories, the scope is still limited to projects in the Lean
    reservoir, and the data distribution may be biased towards some fields, while other topics may be un-


                                                                                        8
Preprint




derrepresented. Considering only projects in the Lean reservoir restricts the number of repositories
to consider, but it is more likely to lead to higher quality projects.
In addition, the verifier currently does not allow solutions that propose to add imports to the target
file, open additional namespaces, or to define additional lemmas to use in the target theorem, which
could be a limitation to the expressivity of the prover. This constraint can be easily removed in a
future version of the benchmark.
Finally, some solutions may potentially exploit Lean properties to trick the verification pipeline.
While we currently employ a custom script to remove instances of sorryAx, an exploit which
the agentic systems used to get around the sorry verification, future work can easily improve the
verification pipelines by integrating tools such as Leanchecker (leanprover contributors), SafeVer-
ify (GasStationManager) or another custom kernel check tool would improve its reliability.

6   C ONCLUSION
In this work, we introduce SorryDB, a dynamic benchmark derived from unresolved sorry state-
ments in Lean GitHub repositories containing active formalization efforts. By focusing on outstand-
ing real-world tasks, SorryDB is inherently aligned to the priorities of the formalization community.
The benchmark is continually refreshed to mitigate data contamination and ensure it reflects the
ever-evolving formalization landscape. Our evaluations demonstrate the efficacy of modern agentic
provers while identifying specific limitations compared to traditional methods. With SorryDB, we
aim to help herald the coming future of increasingly capable and usable proving assistants. Code is
available at https://github.com/SorryDB/SorryDB/

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Morph Labs for providing support with their infrastructure, and Axiomatic AI for pro-
viding support with LLM inference. Part of this research was supported by the European Research
Council (ERC), grant 864145. A.L. and L.S thank Marco del Tredici and Benjamin Breen for com-
ments on the original manuscript and for discussions.

R EFERENCES
Tudor Achim, Alex Best, Alberto Bietti, Kevin Der, Mathïs Fédérico, Sergei Gukov, Daniel Halpern-
  Leistner, Kirsten Henningsgard, Yury Kudryashov, Alexander Meiburg, Martin Michelsen, Ri-
  ley Patterson, Eric Rodriguez, Laura Scharff, Vikram Shanker, Vladmir Sicca, Hari Sowrirajan,
  Aidan Swope, Matyas Tamas, Vlad Tenev, Jonathan Thomm, Harold Williams, and Lawrence
  Wu. Aristotle: Imo-level automated theorem proving, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/
  abs/2510.01346.
Anthropic. Introducing claude opus 4.5. Anthropic News (Announcements), November 2025. URL
  https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-opus-4-5. Accessed: 2026-01-05.
Axiom. From seeing why to checking everything: Axiomprover solves all problems at putnam 2025:
  Proof release & commentary, January 2026. URL https://axiommath.ai/territory/
  from-seeing-why-to-checking-everything. Territory (Axiom Math blog).
Zhangir Azerbayev, Bartosz Piotrowski, Hailey Schoelkopf, Edward W. Ayers, Dragomir Radev,
  and Jeremy Avigad. Proofnet: Autoformalizing and formally proving undergraduate-level math-
  ematics, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.12433.
Lars Becker, María Inés de Frutos-Fernández, Leo Diedering, Floris van Doorn, Sébastien Gouëzel,
  Asgar Jamneshan, Evgenia Karunus, Edward van de Meent, Pietro Monticone, Jasper Mulder-
  Sohn, Jim Portegies, Joris Roos, Michael Rothgang, Rajula Srivastava, James Sundstrom, Jeremy
  Tan, and Christoph Thiele. A blueprint for the formalization of carleson’s theorem on convergence
  of fourier series, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06423.
Param Biyani, Shashank Kirtania, Yasharth Bajpai, Sumit Gulwani, and Ashish Tiwari. Indimath-
  bench: Autoformalizing mathematical reasoning problems with a human touch, 2025. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.00997.


                                                  9
Preprint




Kevin Buzzard and Richard Taylor. Towards a lean proof of fermat’s last theorem. Technical re-
  port, Imperial College London, January 2026. URL https://imperialcollegelondon.
  github.io/FLT/blueprint.pdf. Project blueprint and documentation.

Chenrui Cao, Liangcheng Song, Zenan Li, Xinyi Le, Xian Zhang, Hui Xue, and Fan Yang. Re-
  viving dsp for advanced theorem proving in the era of reasoning models, 2025. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2506.11487.

Jiangjie Chen, Wenxiang Chen, Jiacheng Du, Jinyi Hu, Zhicheng Jiang, Allan Jie, Xiaoran Jin,
   Xing Jin, Chenggang Li, Wenlei Shi, Zhihong Wang, Mingxuan Wang, Chenrui Wei, Shufa Wei,
   Huajian Xin, Fan Yang, Weihao Gao, Zheng Yuan, Tianyang Zhan, Zeyu Zheng, Tianxi Zhou,
   and Thomas Hanwen Zhu. Seed-prover 1.5: Mastering undergraduate-level theorem proving via
   learning from experience, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.17260.

Luoxin Chen, Jinming Gu, Liankai Huang, Wenhao Huang, Zhicheng Jiang, Allan Jie, Xiaoran Jin,
  Xing Jin, Chenggang Li, Kaijing Ma, Cheng Ren, Jiawei Shen, Wenlei Shi, Tong Sun, He Sun,
  Jiahui Wang, Siran Wang, Zhihong Wang, Chenrui Wei, Shufa Wei, Yonghui Wu, Yuchen Wu,
  Yihang Xia, Huajian Xin, Fan Yang, Huaiyuan Ying, Hongyi Yuan, Zheng Yuan, Tianyang Zhan,
  Chi Zhang, Yue Zhang, Ge Zhang, Tianyun Zhao, Jianqiu Zhao, Yichi Zhou, and Thomas Hanwen
  Zhu. Seed-prover: Deep and broad reasoning for automated theorem proving, 2025b. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.23726.

Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, and Ice Pasupat et al. Gemini 2.5: Pushing
  the frontier with advanced reasoning, multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic
  capabilities, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.06261.

Johan Commelin and Adam Topaz. Abstraction boundaries and spec driven development in pure
  mathematics, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14870.

Leonardo de Moura. The Lean Reference Manual: The grind tactic. Lean Focused Research
  Organization, 2025.  URL https://lean-lang.org/doc/reference/latest/
  The--grind--tactic/.

Rémy Degenne, David Ledvinka, Etienne Marion, and Peter Pfaffelhuber. Formalization of brown-
  ian motion in lean, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.20118.

Guoxiong Gao, Haocheng Ju, Jiedong Jiang, Zihan Qin, and Bin Dong. A semantic search engine
  for mathlib4, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13310.

GasStationManager. Safeverify: A lean4 script for robustly verifying submitted proofs of theo-
  rems and implementations of functions. https://github.com/GasStationManager/
  SafeVerify. GitHub repository. License: Apache-2.0. Accessed 2026-01-19.

Thomas Hales. The formal proof of the kepler conjecture: a critical retrospective, 2024. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08032.

Jiewen Hu, Thomas Zhu, and Sean Welleck. minictx: Neural theorem proving with (long-)contexts,
   2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03350.

Yichen Huang and Lin F. Yang. Winning gold at imo 2025 with a model-agnostic verification-and-
  refinement pipeline, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.15855.

Thomas Hubert, Rishi Mehta, Laurent Sartran, Miklós Z. Horváth, Goran Žužić, Eric Wieser, Aja
  Huang, Julian Schrittwieser, Yannick Schroecker, Hussain Masoom, Ottavia Bertolli, Tom Za-
  havy, Amol Mandhane, Jessica Yung, Iuliya Beloshapka, Borja Ibarz, Vivek Veeriah, Lei Yu,
  Oliver Nash, Paul Lezeau, Salvatore Mercuri, Calle Sönne, Bhavik Mehta, Alex Davies, Daniel
  Zheng, Fabian Pedregosa, Yin Li, Ingrid von Glehn, Mark Rowland, Samuel Albanie, Ameya Vel-
  ingker, Simon Schmitt, Edward Lockhart, Edward Hughes, Henryk Michalewski, Nicolas Son-
  nerat, Demis Hassabis, Pushmeet Kohli, and David Silver. Olympiad-level formal mathematical
  reasoning with reinforcement learning. Nature, 2025. doi: 10.1038/s41586-025-09833-y. URL
  https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09833-y.


                                              10
Preprint




Hamel Husain, Ho-Hsiang Wu, Tiferet Gazit, Miltiadis Allamanis, and Marc Brockschmidt. Code-
  searchnet challenge: Evaluating the state of semantic code search, 2020. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/1909.09436.
Albert Q. Jiang, Sean Welleck, Jin Peng Zhou, Wenda Li, Jiacheng Liu, Mateja Jamnik, Timothée
  Lacroix, Yuhuai Wu, and Guillaume Lample. Draft, sketch, and prove: Guiding formal theorem
  provers with informal proofs, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.12283.
Jiedong Jiang, Wanyi He, Yuefeng Wang, Guoxiong Gao, Yongle Hu, Jingting Wang, Nailing Guan,
   Peihao Wu, Chunbo Dai, Liang Xiao, and Bin Dong. Fate: A formal benchmark series for frontier
   algebra of multiple difficulty levels, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.02872.
Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik
  Narasimhan. Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues?, 2024. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06770.
Franz J. Király and Zhaozhi Qian. Modelling competitive sports: Bradley-terry- models for su-
  pervised and on-line learning of paired competition outcomes, 2017. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/1701.08055.
Adarsh Kumarappan, Mo Tiwari, Peiyang Song, Robert Joseph George, Chaowei Xiao, and Anima
  Anandkumar. Leanagent: Lifelong learning for formal theorem proving, 2025. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2410.06209.
Nathan Lambert, Jacob Morrison, Valentina Pyatkin, Shengyi Huang, Hamish Ivison, Faeze Brah-
  man, Lester James V. Miranda, Alisa Liu, Nouha Dziri, Shane Lyu, Yuling Gu, Saumya Ma-
  lik, Victoria Graf, Jena D. Hwang, Jiangjiang Yang, Ronan Le Bras, Oyvind Tafjord, Chris
  Wilhelm, Luca Soldaini, Noah A. Smith, Yizhong Wang, Pradeep Dasigi, and Hannaneh Ha-
  jishirzi. Tulu 3: Pushing frontiers in open language model post-training, 2025. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2411.15124.
Lean FRO. Inclusion criteria, 2025.        URL https://reservoir.lean-lang.org/
  inclusion-criteria.
Lean Prover contributors. Reservoir: Package registry for lean/lake. https://github.com/
  leanprover/reservoir, 2026. GitHub repository (Apache-2.0), accessed 2026-01-28.
leanprover contributors. lean4checker: Replay the environment for a given lean module. https:
   //github.com/leanprover/lean4checker. GitHub repository. License: Apache-2.0.
   Accessed 2026-01-19.
Yong Lin, Shange Tang, Bohan Lyu, Jiayun Wu, Hongzhou Lin, Kaiyu Yang, Jia Li, Mengzhou
  Xia, Danqi Chen, Sanjeev Arora, and Chi Jin. Goedel-prover: A frontier model for open-source
  automated theorem proving, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07640.
Yong Lin, Shange Tang, Bohan Lyu, Ziran Yang, Jui-Hui Chung, Haoyu Zhao, Lai Jiang, Yihan
  Geng, Jiawei Ge, Jingruo Sun, Jiayun Wu, Jiri Gesi, Ximing Lu, David Acuna, Kaiyu Yang,
  Hongzhou Lin, Yejin Choi, Danqi Chen, Sanjeev Arora, and Chi Jin. Goedel-prover-v2: Scaling
  formal theorem proving with scaffolded data synthesis and self-correction, 2025b. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2508.03613.
Logical Intelligence. Aleph prover by logical intelligence.             URL https://www.
  logicalintelligence.com/aleph-prover.html.
The mathlib Community. The lean mathematical library. In Proceedings of the 9th ACM SIGPLAN
  International Conference on Certified Programs and Proofs, POPL ’20, page 367–381. ACM,
  January 2020. doi: 10.1145/3372885.3373824. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/
  3372885.3373824.
Leonardo de Moura and Sebastian Ullrich. The lean 4 theorem prover and programming language.
  In Automated Deduction – CADE 28: 28th International Conference on Automated Deduction,
  Virtual Event, July 12–15, 2021, Proceedings, page 625–635, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2021. Springer-
  Verlag. ISBN 978-3-030-79875-8. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-79876-5_37. URL https://doi.
  org/10.1007/978-3-030-79876-5_37.


                                               11
Preprint




OpenAI. Introducing GPT-5.2, December 2025. URL https://openai.com/index/
  introducing-gpt-5-2/. Published December 11, 2025. Accessed: 2026-01-25.
Azim Ospanov, Farzan Farnia, and Roozbeh Yousefzadeh. Apollo: Automated llm and lean col-
  laboration for advanced formal reasoning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.
  05758.
Auguste Poiroux, Antoine Bosselut, and Viktor Kunčak. Rlmeval: Evaluating research-level neural
  theorem proving, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.25427.
Auguste Poiroux, Viktor Kuncak, and Antoine Bosselut. Leaninteract: A python interface for lean
  4, 2025b. URL https://github.com/augustepoiroux/LeanInteract.
Z. Z. Ren, Zhihong Shao, Junxiao Song, Huajian Xin, Haocheng Wang, Wanjia Zhao, Liyue
  Zhang, Zhe Fu, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Z. F. Wu, Zhibin Gou, Shirong Ma, Hongxuan Tang,
  Yuxuan Liu, Wenjun Gao, Daya Guo, and Chong Ruan. Deepseek-prover-v2: Advancing for-
  mal mathematical reasoning via reinforcement learning for subgoal decomposition, 2025. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.21801.
Anka Reuel, Amelia Hardy, Chandler Smith, Max Lamparth, Malcolm Hardy, and Mykel J. Kochen-
  derfer. Betterbench: Assessing ai benchmarks, uncovering issues, and establishing best practices,
  2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12990.
Neil Robertson, Daniel Sanders, Paul Seymour, and Robin Thomas. The four-colour theorem.
  Journal of Combinatorial Theory, Series B, 70(1):2–44, 1997. ISSN 0095-8956. doi: https:
  //doi.org/10.1006/jctb.1997.1750. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
  article/pii/S0095895697917500.
David Silver, Thomas Hubert, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Matthew Lai, Arthur Guez,
  Marc Lanctot, Laurent Sifre, Dharshan Kumaran, Thore Graepel, Timothy Lillicrap, Karen Si-
  monyan, and Demis Hassabis. Mastering chess and shogi by self-play with a general reinforce-
  ment learning algorithm, 2017. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.01815.
Xichen Tang. A comprehensive survey of the lean 4 theorem prover: Architecture, applications, and
  advances, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18639.
The leanprover-community. Lean 4 repl: A simple repl for lean 4, returning information about errors
  and sorries. https://github.com/leanprover-community/repl, 2023.
George Tsoukalas, Jasper Lee, John Jennings, Jimmy Xin, Michelle Ding, Michael Jennings, Ami-
  tayush Thakur, and Swarat Chaudhuri. Putnambench: Evaluating neural theorem-provers on the
  putnam mathematical competition, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11214.
Sumanth Varambally, Thomas Voice, Yanchao Sun, Zhifeng Chen, Rose Yu, and Ke Ye. Hilbert:
  Recursively building formal proofs with informal reasoning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2509.22819.
Haiming Wang, Mert Unsal, Xiaohan Lin, Mantas Baksys, Junqi Liu, Marco Dos Santos, Flood
  Sung, Marina Vinyes, Zhenzhe Ying, Zekai Zhu, Jianqiao Lu, Hugues de Saxcé, Bolton Bailey,
  Chendong Song, Chenjun Xiao, Dehao Zhang, Ebony Zhang, Frederick Pu, Han Zhu, Jiawei Liu,
  Jonas Bayer, Julien Michel, Longhui Yu, Léo Dreyfus-Schmidt, Lewis Tunstall, Luigi Pagani,
  Moreira Machado, Pauline Bourigault, Ran Wang, Stanislas Polu, Thibaut Barroyer, Wen-Ding
  Li, Yazhe Niu, Yann Fleureau, Yangyang Hu, Zhouliang Yu, Zihan Wang, Zhilin Yang, Zhengying
  Liu, and Jia Li. Kimina-prover preview: Towards large formal reasoning models with reinforce-
  ment learning, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.11354.
Lilin Wang, Lucas Ramalho, Alan Celestino, Phuc Anthony Pham, Yu Liu, Umang Kumar Sinha,
  Andres Portillo, Onassis Osunwa, and Gabriel Maduekwe. Swe-bench++: A framework for the
  scalable generation of software engineering benchmarks from open-source repositories, 2025b.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.17419.
Ruida Wang, Rui Pan, Yuxin Li, Jipeng Zhang, Yizhen Jia, Shizhe Diao, Renjie Pi, Junjie Hu, and
  Tong Zhang. Ma-lot: Model-collaboration lean-based long chain-of-thought reasoning enhances
  formal theorem proving, 2025c. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03205.


                                                12
Preprint




Rongge Xu, Hui Dai, Yiming Fu, Jiedong Jiang, Tianjiao Nie, Hongwei Wang, Junkai Wang, Holi-
  verse Yang, Jiatong Yang, and Zhi-Hao Zhang. Leancat: A benchmark suite for formal category
  theory in lean (part i: 1-categories), 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.24796.
An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang
  Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, Chujie Zheng, Dayiheng Liu, Fan Zhou, Fei Huang, Feng Hu,
  Hao Ge, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin
  Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jing Zhou, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keqin Bao, Kexin Yang,
  Le Yu, Lianghao Deng, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Mingze Li, Pei Zhang, Peng Wang, Qin Zhu, Rui
  Men, Ruize Gao, Shixuan Liu, Shuang Luo, Tianhao Li, Tianyi Tang, Wenbiao Yin, Xingzhang
  Ren, Xinyu Wang, Xinyu Zhang, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yinger
  Zhang, Yu Wan, Yuqiong Liu, Zekun Wang, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, Zhipeng Zhou, and Zihan
  Qiu. Qwen3 technical report, 2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09388.
John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alex L. Zhang, Kilian Lieret, Joyce Yang, Xindi Wu, Ori Press,
  Niklas Muennighoff, Gabriel Synnaeve, Karthik R. Narasimhan, Diyi Yang, Sida I. Wang, and
  Ofir Press. Swe-bench multimodal: Do ai systems generalize to visual software domains?, 2024.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.03859.
John Yang, Kilian Lieret, Joyce Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Ofir Press, Ludwig Schmidt, and Diyi
  Yang. Codeclash: Benchmarking goal-oriented software engineering, 2025b. URL https:
  //arxiv.org/abs/2511.00839.
Xiao-Wen Yang, Zihao Zhang, Jianuo Cao, Zhi Zhou, Zenan Li, Lan-Zhe Guo, Yuan Yao, Taolue
  Chen, Yu-Feng Li, and Xiaoxing Ma. Formalml: A benchmark for evaluating formal subgoal
  completion in machine learning theory, 2025c. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.
  02335.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
  React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models, 2023. URL https://arxiv.
  org/abs/2210.03629.
Zhe Ye, Zhengxu Yan, Jingxuan He, Timothe Kasriel, Kaiyu Yang, and Dawn Song. Verina: Bench-
  marking verifiable code generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.23135, 2025.
Kunhao Zheng, Jesse Michael Han, and Stanislas Polu. Minif2f: a cross-system benchmark for
  formal olympiad-level mathematics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.00110, 2021.


A    Q UALITATIVE A NALYSIS
In this Appendix, we analyze specific examples of proposed proofs to better understand the qualita-
tive differences across provers.
A striking example from the Brownian-motion repository (Degenne et al., 2025) is shown in Figure
4. It involves proving that the Càdlàg property (right-continuous with left limits) is preserved under
the squared norm operation. While standard LLMs were distracted by hunting for non-existent
Mathlib lemmas, the self-correcting approach, without tools succeeded by directly constructing the
solution. This required a deep understanding of the local IsCadlag definition: the model manually
initialized the structure’s fields and successfully constructed an existential witness for the left limit.
Interestingly, the tool-enabled agentic approach failed to solve this same problem, as it kept calling
the search tool rather than building the proof term itself. This illustrates a counter-intuitive failure
mode where a generally stronger prover is outperformed by a weaker one due to tool over-reliance.
As shown in the upset plot (Figure 3b), this is not an isolated incident. It is one of six theorems
solved by the self-correcting Gemini Flash but missed by the agentic version.
This highlights the strength of SorryDB: it captures tasks that resist simple retrieval and require
models to engage in novel arguments within a specific local context. A complementary success
is observed in the RemyDegenne/CLT repository, where the task involved proving the integra-
bility of a function on a product measure space. While pure generative models failed to recon-
struct the complex measure-theoretic argument, both the deterministic tactics and the Agentic one
successfully solved it by retrieving specific Mathlib lemmas (integrable_comp_eval and


                                                   13
Preprint




                              Incorrect Attempt - Goedel Prover:
           The model outlines the proof structure but gives up on each step with sorry.
    have hX2_cadlag : ∀ ω, IsCadlag (fun t 7→ ∥X t ω∥ ^ 2) := by
      intro ω
      have h1 : IsCadlag (X · ω) := hX_cadlag ω
      have h2 : Continuous (fun x : E => ∥x∥ : E → R) := by sorry
      have h3 : IsRightContinuous (fun t : ι => ∥X t ω∥ ^ 2 : ι → R) := by
      sorry
      have h4 : IsLeftContinuous (fun t : ι => ∥X t ω∥ ^ 2 : ι → R) := by
      sorry
      have h5 : IsCadlag (fun t : ι => ∥X t ω∥ ^ 2 : ι → R) := by sorry
      sorry

                  Incorrect Attempt - Gemini (agentic with LeanSearch):
       The model hallucinates a high-level lemma (continuous_comp) to fill the sorry.
have hX2_cadlag : ∀ ω, IsCadlag (fun t 7→ ∥X t ω∥ ^ 2) :=
  fun ω 7→ (hX_cadlag ω).continuous_comp (continuous_norm.pow 2)

                         Correct Solution - Gemini (self-correcting):
The model does not find an appropriate existing lemma and fills the sorry by constructing the proof
                                    term structure manually.
have hX2_cadlag : ∀ ω, IsCadlag (fun t 7→ ∥X t ω∥ ^ 2) :=
  fun ω 7→ {
    right_continuous := fun t 7→
      ((hX_cadlag ω).right_continuous t).norm.pow 2
    left_limit := fun t 7→
      let ⟨l, hl⟩ := (hX_cadlag ω).left_limit t
      ⟨∥l∥ ^ 2, hl.norm.pow 2⟩
  }



Figure 4: Three attempts at filling the same sorry in the brownian-motion repository. (top)
Goedel Prover outlines the proof structure but abandons each sub-goal with sorry, unable to find
the required lemmas. (middle) Gemini with LeanSearch attempts a syntactically-correct guess using
continuous_comp, a non-existent library function it assumed to exist. (bottom) Gemini self-
correcting (without LeanSearch) inspects the definition of IsCadlag and manually constructs a
proof term by providing the two required fields: right_continuous and left_limit.




integrable_comp_of_integrable, respectively). This contrast highlights a key strength of
SorryDB: it effectively captures the diverse reality of formalization, where success requires know-
ing when to construct a novel proof, as in the Brownian motion example, and when to leverage the
existing library, it does not test reasoning power in a vacuum. By including tasks that demand deep
library knowledge alongside those requiring novel construction, SorryDB provides a more holistic
evaluation of the practical utility of an AI-based theorem prover.



B    DATASET COMPOSITION

The source for all GitHub repositories which store SorryDB sorrys is the Reservoir Lean package
registry. This means that selected repositories comply with the reservoir inclusion criteria and have
a root lake-manifest.json file which specifies relevant descriptive metadata. All branches
are included; when the indexer is run, it looks for “leaf commits,” which are the final commits in
any branch.


                                                 14
Preprint




                                               SorryDB-2601 (n=5663)
                                    1500


                     # Sorries
                                    1000

                                        500

                                          0
                                               Evaluation Sample (n=1000)
                                        200

                         # Sorries
                                        100


                                          0
                                               02 2       023          02 3         024          02 4        025      02 5
                                               t2       r2         t2              r2            t2      r2          t2
                                          Oc          Ap         Oc            Ap            Oc          Ap         Oc
                                                                               Git Blame Date

Figure 5: Distribution of git blame dates in SorryDB-2601 and the 1000 sorry sample. Serving as a
proxy for the time of addition, these dates reveal that most sorries are very recent.




                                                                2310




                    Number of Sorries
                                        2000
                                        1500
                                                                                    1108
                                        1000                                                                  871
                                                                                                                             716
                                         500                                               203
                                                    11 54 22            1     98                 43 66   7          11 142
                                          0       v4
                                              v4 .18.
                                                .18 0
                                                   .0-
                                                  v4 1 rc
                                                     .21
                                                  v4 .0
                                              v4 .22.
                                                .22 0
                                              v4 .0-rc
                                                .23 4
                                                   .0-
                                                  v4 2
                                              v4 .24.
                                                .24 0  rc
                                                   .0-
                                                  v4 1
                                              v4 .25.
                                                .25 0
                                                   .0-
                                                  v4 2 rc
                                                       rc
                                                     .25
                                                  v4 .1
                                              v4 .26.
                                                .26 0
                                              v4 .0-rc
                                                .26 1
                                              v4 .0-rc
                                                .27 2
                                                   .0-
                                                                                   Lean Version
                                                       rc1



Figure 6: Lean versions of SorryDB-2601 are distributed across major versions and release can-
didates with the vast majority of sorries on major versions 4.22, 4.24, 4.26, and 4.27.0-rc1, the last
being the latest version at the time of the dataset collection.




                                                                                    15
Preprint




Table 2: Distribution of sorries by repository category in the SorryDB-2601 dataset snapshot and
for the specific 1000 sorries we sampled for use in our experiments. For building the latter, we
sampled the newest sorries from each repository to maximize diversity and recency.

                        C ATEGORY           S ORRY DB-2601     T EST S AMPLE
                        F ORMALIZATION           3,099              562
                        P EDAGOGICAL             1,037              216
                        B ENCHMARK                797                48
                        L IBRARY                  616                89
                        T OOLING                  114               85
                        T OTAL                   5,663             1,000



B.1    T OTAL SORRIES ON G IT H UB OVER TIME




      Figure 7: Total sorries on GitHub over time have steadily increased over the last 3 years.



B.2    DYNAMICS OF A L EAN PROJECT

Figure 8 illustrates the dynamic nature of a representative repository, where periods of rapid devel-
opment introduce many sorry statements, followed by gradual discharge as proofs mature.




Figure 8: Sorries added and removed from the Carleson project from its announcement to its com-
pletion. You can see sharp increases in number of sorry statements when new sections were added
with missing proofs and then a gradual decrease as Lean practitioners provided proofs.



                                                 16
Preprint




C     F ULL DATASET SCHEMA
We provide the full schema for the SORRYDB-2601 dataset.

                     Table 3: Schema of a Sorry record in the SorryDB database.
             Field                        Type           Description
             repo
               remote                     string         Repository URL
               branch                     string         Git branch name
               commit                     string         Git commit hash
               lean_version               string         Lean version (e.g., v4.26.0)
             location
               path                       string         File path within repository
               start_line                 int            Starting line number
               start_column               int            Starting column number
               end_line                   int            Ending line number
               end_column                 int            Ending column number
             debug_info
               goal                       string         Proof goal state at the sorry
               url                        string         URL to sorry location in repo
             metadata
               blame_email_hash           string         Hashed email of author
               blame_date                 datetime       Date sorry was introduced
               inclusion_date             datetime       Date added to database
             id                           string         SHA256 hash identifier

D     E XAMPLES OF S O R R Y STATEMENTS
We provide examples from the SorryDB-2601 dataset.
    Example 1: Intermediate Value Theorem (RealAnalysisGame)
    Repository:      AlexKontorovich/RealAnalysisGame
    File:            Game/Levels/L25Levels/L02.lean:128
    Lean Version:    v4.23.0-rc2
    URL:             View on GitHub
    Code Context:
       /--
    The Intermediate Value Theorem (IVT) states that if a function is
         continuous on a closed interval ‘[a, b]‘ and takes values ‘f(a) <
         0‘ and ‘0 < f(b)‘, then there exists ‘c ∈ (a, b)‘ so that
         ‘f(c)=0‘.
    -/
    TheoremDoc RealAnalysisGame.IVT as "IVT" in "f(x)"

    Statement IVT {f : R → R} (hf : FunCont f) {a b : R} (hab : a < b)
          (hfa : f a < 0) (hfb : 0 < f b): ∃ c ∈ Ioo a b, f c = 0 := by
    let S := { x ∈ Icc a b | f x < 0 }
    have a_in_S : a ∈ S := by
      split_ands
      · bound
      ...
      linarith [hc.2 (c - δ / 2) cUB, hδpos]
      sorry

    Goal:



                                                 17
Preprint




       case refine_1
       f : R → R
       hf : FunCont f
       a b : R
       hab : a < b
       hfa : f a < 0
       hfb : 0 < f b
       S : Set R := {x | x ∈ Icc a b ∧ f x < 0}
       c : R
       hc : IsLUB S c
       fc : f c = 0
       hca : a ̸= c
       ⊢ a < c




  Example 2: Field Multiplication (curve25519-dalek-lean-verify)
  Repository:     Beneficial-AI-Foundation/curve25519-dalek-lean-verify
  File:           Curve25519Dalek/.../FieldElement51/Mul.lean:44
  Lean Version:   v4.24.0
  URL:            View on GitHub
  Code Context:
  /-
  natural language description:

        · Computes the product of two field elements a and b in the field
        F_p where p = 2^255 - 19
        · The field elements are represented as five u64 limbs each

  natural language specs:

        · The function always succeeds (no panic)
        · Field51_as_Nat(result) ≡ Field51_as_Nat(lhs) *
        Field51_as_Nat(rhs) (mod p)
  -/

  /-- **Spec and proof concerning
       ‘backend.serial.u64.field.FieldElement51.Mul.mul‘**:
  - No panic (always returns successfully)
  - The result, when converted to a natural number, is congruent to
       the product of the inputs modulo p
  - Input bounds: each limb < 2^54
  - Output bounds: each limb < 2^52
  -/
  @[progress]
  theorem mul_spec (lhs rhs : Array U64 5#usize)
       (hlhs : ∀ i < 5, lhs[i]!.val < 2 ^ 54) (hrhs : ∀ i < 5,
       rhs[i]!.val < 2 ^ 54) :
       ∃ r, mul lhs rhs = ok r ∧
       Field51_as_Nat r ≡ (Field51_as_Nat lhs) * (Field51_as_Nat rhs)
       [MOD p] ∧
       (∀ i < 5, r[i]!.val < 2 ^ 52) := by
     sorry

  Goal:
       lhs rhs : Array U64 5#usize
       hlhs : ∀ i < 5, ↑lhs[i]! < 2 ^ 54
       hrhs : ∀ i < 5, ↑rhs[i]! < 2 ^ 54
       ⊢ ∃ r, mul lhs rhs = ok r ∧



                                            18
Preprint




          Field51_as_Nat r ≡ Field51_as_Nat lhs * Field51_as_Nat rhs
        [MOD p] ∧
          ∀ i < 5, ↑r[i]! < 2 ^ 52




    Example 3: Division Algebra Finiteness (FLT)
    Repository:     ImperialCollegeLondon/FLT
    File:           FLT/DivisionAlgebra/Finiteness.lean:106
    Lean Version:   v4.27.0-rc1
    URL:            View on GitHub
    Code Context:
    lemma existsE : ∃ E : Set (D_A), IsCompact E ∧
        ∀ φ : D_A ≃t + D_A, addEquivAddHaarChar φ = 1 → ∃ e1 ∈ E, ∃ e2 ∈
        E,
        e1 ̸= e2 ∧ φ e1 - φ e2 ∈ Set.range
        (Algebra.TensorProduct.includeLeft : D →a [K] D_A) := by
      --have :=
        MeasureTheory.QuotientMeasureEqMeasurePreimage.haarMeasure_quotient
      sorry -- **TODO** prove that if A is a locally compact ab group
        and Gamma is a cocompact
      -- subgroup then there’s some positive real M such that if U ⊆ A
        and µ(U)>M then
      -- U -> A/Gamma isn’t injective.

    Goal:
      K : Type u_1
      inst†6 : Field K
      inst†5 : NumberField K
      D : Type u_2
      inst†4 : DivisionRing D
      inst†3 : Algebra K D
      inst†2 : FiniteDimensional K D
      ⊢ ∃ E, IsCompact E ∧
          ∀ (φ : D_A ≃p + D_A), addEquivAddHaarChar φ = 1 →
             ∃ e1 ∈ E, ∃ e2 ∈ E, e1 ̸= e2 ∧
               φ e1 - φ e2 ∈ Set.range ↑Algebra.TensorProduct.includeLeft




E     I NDEXER D ETAILS

For each selected repository, the indexer extracts all the sorry keywords used inside the project.
For each sorry, we store specific metadata that help identifying it, including the specific repo and
commit branch, its url, the commit date. All sorrys that are intentionally committed to a main
branch are included alongside those found on any work-in-progress branch.
Subsequently, sorrys are filtered so that they can be reproduced in an evaluation environment.
Specifically, for each sorry, we clone the associated repo, checkout the specific branch and make
sure that the Lean project successfully builds. We remove the tasks that fail to build. Next, the in-
dexer uses the Lean REPL (The leanprover-community, 2023) interaction tool to extract the sorry
from the Lean file and verify that it is “prop-valued”, that is, the sorry requires a proof (i.e. a
term of type Prop) rather than a term of some other type (e.g. Nat or Real). Indeed, filling a
sorry for a non-Prop term is considered out of scope because one cannot automatically evaluate
the correctness of filled value: intuitively, this corresponds to providing a definition rather than a
proof. The sorrys are then deduplicated, removing those that have exactly the same formal goal and


                                                 19
Preprint




keeping only the most recent occurrence. Deduplication is important as many sorries are repeated
across multiple commits across a single repo.

F     L IST OF REPOSITORIES IN THE S O R R Y DB-2601 DATASET

    Table 4: Repositories in the SorryDB-2601 Dataset and number of sorrys per repository.

           Repository                                                  Test Set   Full Set
           AlexKontorovich/PrimeNumberTheoremAnd                            21       136
           AlexKontorovich/RealAnalysisGame                                 21        55
           Beneficial-AI-Foundation/curve25519-dalek-lean-verify            21        86
           Bergschaf/lean-banach-tarski                                      1         1
           Clap-lang/clap-lean                                              13        13
           Deducteam/lean2dk                                                 1         1
           FormalizedFormalLogic/Foundation                                 21        33
           FredRaj3/SemicircleLaw                                           21        35
           GasStationManager/SafeVerify                                      1         1
           HEPLean/PhysLean                                                 21        27
           ImperialCollegeLondon/FLT                                        21        74
           Ivan-Sergeyev/seymour                                             2         2
           JadAbouHawili/Raymond-Smullyan-KnightsAndKnaves                   6         6
           MichaelStollBayreuth/EulerProducts                                1         1
           NyxFoundation/tsl-formal-verification                             1         1
           PatrickMassot/GlimpseOfLean                                      20        70
           Paul-Lez/PersistentDecomp                                        20        42
           RemyDegenne/CLT                                                   5         5
           RemyDegenne/brownian-motion                                      20        31
           RemyDegenne/lean-bandits                                         13        13
           Timeroot/Lean-QuantumInfo                                        20       137
           VCA-EPFL/graphiti                                                20        49
           Verified-zkEVM/ArkLib                                            20       431
           Verified-zkEVM/VCV-io                                            20        94
           Verified-zkEVM/clean                                             18        18
           WuProver/groebner_proj                                            6         6
           YaelDillies/LeanAPAP                                             20        41
           YaelDillies/LeanCamCombi                                         20        45
           YaelDillies/MiscYD                                               20        36
           YaelDillies/Toric                                                 9         9
           YellPika/quasi-borel-spaces                                       2         2
           acmepjz/lean-iwasawa                                              6         6
           alexkeizer/QpfTypes                                               2         2
           apnelson1/Matroid                                                20        61
           arademaker/fad                                                   20        22
           dagurtomas/LeanCondensed                                         13        13
           djvelleman/HTPILeanPackage                                       20       259
           dwrensha/compfiles                                               20       120
           emilyriehl/infinity-cosmos                                        1         1
           fpvandoorn/LeanCourse25                                          20       443
           fpvandoorn/carleson                                              20        86
           frenzymath/jixia                                                  1         1
           frenzymath/reap                                                   1         1
           goens/lost-pop-lean                                              10        10
           google-deepmind/formal-conjectures                               20      1698
           google-deepmind/formal-imo                                       20       301
           jcreedcmu/Noperthedron                                           20        29
           jsm28/IMOLean                                                    20        28
                                                                   Continued on next page


                                                20
Preprint




           Repository                                                     Test Set    Full Set
           kbuzzard/ClassFieldTheory                                            20         55
           kebekus/ProjectVD                                                    17         17
           knowsys/Formale-Systeme-in-LEAN                                      20         23
           lean-dojo/LeanMillenniumPrizeProblems                                14         14
           leanprover-community/aesop                                           14         14
           leanprover-community/batteries                                        7          7
           leanprover-community/duper                                            2          2
           leanprover-community/mathlib4                                        20         21
           leanprover-community/quote4                                           1          1
           leanprover-community/sphere-eversion                                  6          6
           leanprover/verso                                                      4          4
           m4lvin/Gossip-in-Lean                                                19         19
           m4lvin/lean4-pdl                                                     20         47
           madvorak/chomsky                                                      1          1
           mo271/FormalBook                                                     20         78
           oliver-butterley/SpectralThm                                         20         27
           or4nge19/NeuralNetworks                                               5          5
           peabrainiac/lean-catdg                                               14         14
           pitmonticone/ItaLean2025                                             16         16
           powdr-labs/leanr                                                      1          1
           rkirov/category-theory-in-context-lean                               21         31
           siddhartha-gadgil/LeanLangur                                         10         10
           siddhartha-gadgil/LeanLion                                            2          2
           siddhartha-gadgil/MetaExamples                                        6          6
           sunblaze-ucb/verina                                                   8          8
           sven-manthe/A-formalization-of-Borel-determinacy-in-Lean              4          4
           thefundamentaltheor3m/Sphere-Packing-Lean                            20        152
           ufmg-smite/lean-smt                                                   6          6
           vihdzp/combinatorial-games                                            2          2
           yangky11/miniF2F-lean4                                               20        488
           Total                                                             1000        5663




G    V ERIFICATION INFRASTRUCTURE

LeanInteract queries the Lean REPL to report all sorry statements present in a file. We verify that (1)
the modified file compiles successfully, (2) the number of sorry statements has decreased by exactly
one, and (3) all remaining sorry statements have unchanged goals. Simply building the Lean project
with lake build is insufficient because sorry is a valid Lean term that compiles without error. Our
verification must therefore explicitly check that the proposed proof eliminates the sorry term rather
than merely producing a syntactically valid file.



H    M ETHODOLOGY FOR SELECTING THE 1000 SORRY STATEMENTS TEST SET

We extract sorry statements exclusively from leaf commits (branch tips). This ensures we cap-
ture incomplete proofs on the main branch as well as work-in-progress on individual development
branches. For the evaluation, we selected 1000 sorry statements from SorryDB-2601 favoring both
recency and diversity of repos: we selected the most recent sorry from each repo by blame date
while pulling cyclically through repos. This prioritization of recency ensures the dataset reflects
the current state of proof obligations and the real-world challenges Lean practitioners face using
currently available tools.


                                                  21
Preprint




I   TACTIC STUDY

We conduct a study of the deterministic Tactic strategy used on the SorryDB-2601 dataset.




Figure 9: Number of sorry statements solved by each tactic. General purpose automation tactics like
grind and aesop perform best.




Figure 10: Upset plot of sorry statements solved by each tactic. Interestingly, exact? uniquely
solves the most sorry statements, mostly from pedagogical repos. This makes sense as tutorials are
likely to have exercises easily dispatched by theorems already in Mathlib. Grind is in second place,
but solves sorry statements from a wider distribution of categories showing its versatility.




                                                22
Preprint




J   A NALYSIS OF TOKEN CONSUMPTION
In Figure 11, we analyze the distribution of total tokens for each different model, considering only
proposed proofs that were successful.

                                              Claude Opus 4.5 (n=154)
                                              Gemini Flash 3 (n=205)
                                              Gemini Pro 3 (n=205)
                                   40         Goedel Prover V2 (n=113)
                                              Qwen 3 (n=81)
                                              Kimina 8B (n=39)




       Number of Verified Proofs
                                   30




                                   20




                                   10




                                    0
                                        104                                        105                              106
                                                                                         Total Tokens


                                                             Figure 11: Token usage distributions for each model.




                                                                                          23
