                                                  P UTNAM B ENCH: Evaluating Neural
                                              Theorem-Provers on the Putnam Mathematical
                                                             Competition




arXiv:2407.11214v2 [cs.AI] 3 Nov 2024
                                               George Tsoukalas            Jasper Lee           John Jennings           Jimmy Xin
                                                  UT Austin                UT Austin              UT Austin             UT Austin

                                            Michelle Ding       Michael Jennings         Amitayush Thakur          Swarat Chaudhuri
                                             UT Austin             UT Austin                UT Austin                 UT Austin



                                                                                    Abstract
                                                 We present P UTNAM B ENCH, a new multi-language benchmark for evaluating
                                                 the ability of neural theorem-provers to solve competition mathematics problems.
                                                 P UTNAM B ENCH consists of 1692 hand-constructed formalizations of 640 theo-
                                                 rems sourced from the William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition, the
                                                 premier undergraduate-level mathematics competition in North America. All the
                                                 problems have formalizations in Lean 4 and Isabelle; a substantial subset also
                                                 has Coq formalizations. P UTNAM B ENCH requires significant problem-solving
                                                 ability and proficiency in a broad range of topics taught in undergraduate math-
                                                 ematics courses. We use P UTNAM B ENCH to evaluate several established neural
                                                 and symbolic theorem-provers. These approaches can only solve a handful of the
                                                 P UTNAM B ENCH problems, establishing the benchmark as a difficult open chal-
                                                 lenge for research on neural theorem-proving. P UTNAM B ENCH is available at
                                                 https://github.com/trishullab/PutnamBench.


                                        1 Introduction
                                        Automating mathematical reasoning is a longstanding goal in artificial intelligence (Newell et al.,
                                        1957). A prominent line of work on the problem (Li et al., 2024) uses neural models to direct
                                        theorem-proving in formal frameworks like Lean 4 (Moura & Ullrich, 2021), Isabelle (Wenzel et al.,
                                        2008), and Coq (The Coq Development Team, 2023). These frameworks can “execute” proofs like
                                        code and offer execution feedback, which simplifies the search for correct proofs.
                                        The design of quality benchmarks is a key challenge in this research area. The two most prominent
                                        competition-based benchmarks for neural theorem-proving are M INI F2F (Zheng et al., 2021) and
                                        F IMO (Liu et al., 2023). The former formalizes a mix of problems from high-school level courses
                                        and mathematics competitions such as AIME, AMC, and IMO; the latter consists of a collection of
                                        IMO problems. Both benchmarks have limitations. For example, M INI F2F contains many problems
                                        that can be immediately solved using an SMT solver, and F IMO only targets the Lean 3 framework,
                                        which is no longer actively maintained.
                                        More generally, as large language models (LLMs) grow in importance as a tool for neural theorem-
                                        proving (Li et al., 2024), preventing leakage between pretraining sets and evaluation sets is more
                                        important than ever. This makes the continued supply of new benchmarks an important goal.
                                        In this paper, we respond to this challenge with P UTNAM B ENCH, a new hand-curated, multi-
                                        langauge benchmark for neural theorem-provers. P UTNAM B ENCH includes 1692 formalizations

                                        38th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024) Track on Datasets and Bench-
                                        marks.
of 640 problems from the William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition, the premier college-
level mathematics competition in North America.* All our problems have Lean 4 (Moura & Ullrich,
2021) and Isabelle (Wenzel et al., 2008) formalizations; a substantial fraction have formalizations in
Coq (The Coq Development Team, 2023) as well. The formalizations are all manually constructed
and have been carefully debugged. The benchmark also includes the original English-language prob-
lem statements with permission from the Mathematical Association of America, which organizes the
Putnam competition.
One key benefit of P UTNAM B ENCH is that Putnam competition problems require a broad base of
mathematical knowledge and skills. Because they target undergraduate students, they cover topics
such as analysis and abstract algebra that do not appear in the International Mathematical Olympiad
(IMO). At the same time, success in the two competitions is correlated — top performers on the
Putnam competition are often former IMO medalists as well. Hence, P UTNAM B ENCH is well-
aligned with the IMO Grand Challenge (Challenge, 2019) and the AI Mathematical Olympiad (Prize,
2023), the latter of which offers a $10M prize fund for developing a system that can win a gold medal
at the IMO.
Another advantage is that P UTNAM B ENCH supports multiple proof assistants. Lean 4, Coq, and
Isabelle are currently the three most popular formal proof languages. However, theorem-proving
benchmarks typically only contain problems in a strict subset of these languages — for example,
M INI F2F (Zheng et al., 2021) does not include Coq problems, and F IMO (Liu et al., 2023) only
targets Lean. P UTNAM B ENCH is the first mathematics-competition benchmark to include problems
in all three languages.
We use P UTNAM B ENCH to evaluate several neural and symbolic approaches: Draft-Sketch-Prove
(Jiang et al., 2022b), C OPRA (Thakur et al., 2024), GPT-4, Sledgehammer (Paulson & Blanchette,
2015), and Coqhammer (Czajka & Kaliszyk, 2018). Collectively, these methods can only solve a
handful of the P UTNAM B ENCH problems, establishing P UTNAM B ENCH as a hard open challenge
for the neural theorem-proving community.

                                                        theorem putnam_1988_b1 :
2 Background                                            ∀ a ≥ 2, ∀ b ≥ 2, ∃ x y z : Z,
                                                        x > 0 ∧ y > 0 ∧ z > 0 ∧
Formal Theorem-Proving. Formal proof                    a * b = x * y + x * z + y * z + 1 := by
frameworks like Lean 4 (Moura & Ullrich,                    intro a ha b hb
2021), Coq (The Coq Development Team,                       use a - 1, b - 1, 1
2023), and Isabelle (Wenzel et al., 2008) allow             constructor
users to write machine-verifiable proofs of                 linarith
                                                            constructor
mathematical theorems. To create such a proof,              linarith
one first uses a framework-specific language                constructor
to formally state the target theorem. The                   linarith
mathematical objects referenced in the theorem              ring
can be imported from an existing repository or
defined by the user. During the proof process,
the proof framework maintains a state that      Figure 1: A formalization of Putnam 1988 B1 in
includes information about the parts of the     Lean 4, which asserts that for all integers a, b ≥ 2,
proof that remain to be completed. One can      there are positive integers x, y, z such that ab =
change this state by executing a proof step. Thexy + xz + yz + 1. The formal proof begins by
user’s goal is to write a sequence of proof steps
                                                introducing all relevant variables and hypotheses
(in the framework’s language) that changes the  with intro, then indicating the choice of x, y, z
proof state to a special state “QED” in which   with use, and afterwards proving all goals using
there are no unmet proof obligations.           the automated tactics linarith and ring. This
Figure 1 illustrates a theorem and proof in the proof was discovered through a few-shot invoca-
Lean 4 framework.                               tion of GPT-4.

The Putnam Competition. The William Lowell Putnam Mathematical (Competition, 2024), or-
ganized by the Mathematical Association of America (MAA), is the premier collegiate mathematics
competition in North America. Thousands of undergraduate students from universities across the
United States and Canada take the exam each year. The competition comprises two 3-hour-long
   * P UTNAM B ENCH is available at https://github.com/trishullab/PutnamBench.




                                                    2
    Benchmark          #     Natural Language         Lean   Isabelle    Coq    Factored Solution
    MINI F2F          488             X               X†        X
    P ROOF N ET       371             X               X†                                N/A
    F IMO             149             X               X†
    P UTNAM B ENCH    640             X               X         X         X              X

Table 1: Comparison of existing formal theorem proving evaluation benchmarks. P UTNAM B ENCH
exceeds prior benchmarks by providing support for all of Lean 4, Isabelle, and Coq, on a set of
difficult competition problems using undergraduate-level mathematics. For problems requiring a
numerical solution in addition to a proof, we factor the solution out of the theorem statement.


sessions of six problems each, presented in approximately ascending order of difficulty within each
session. While some problems require competitors to furnish a concrete solution (such as a num-
ber, a set, or the truth value of a given statement), all problems require a natural-language proof of
correctness. The contest draws from a wide variety of topics in the undergraduate curriculum, often
using instances of ideas from research-level mathematics.


3     P UTNAM B ENCH

P UTNAM B ENCH is a multi-language evaluation benchmark           Category             Total Quantity
consisting of formalized problems from the Putnam compe-          Algebra                    253
tition. P UTNAM B ENCH is a manually produced benchmark,          Analysis                   226
including 640 formalizations in Lean 4 and Isabelle, and 412      Number Theory              107
formalizations in Coq. In aggregate, P UTNAM B ENCH con-          Geometry                    68
tains 1692 formalizations of Putnam competition problems.         Linear Algebra             51
We also incorporate the informal statements and numerical         Abstract Algebra            28
solutions where applicable.                                       Combinatorics               26
                                                                  Probability                 9
Now we elaborate on the main features of P UTNAM B ENCH.          Set Theory                  8
Diversity and Breadth.              Compared to M INI F2F Table 2: Quantity by domain of P UT-
(Zheng et al., 2021) and F IMO (Liu et al., 2023), which NAM B ENCH problems. Our formal-
generally rely on high-school mathematics, P UTNAM B ENCH izations generally reflect the variety
incorporates a wider variety of problems which require defini- of Putnam problems, though we can
tions of the standard undergraduate mathematics curriculum. only formalize few geometry and
The P ROOF N ET benchmark (Azerbayev et al., 2023) also probability problems due to limited
sources problems from the undergraduate curriculum, but support for these topics in the re-
these problems are generally from standard textbooks as spective mathematical libraries.
opposed to mathematical competitions. Putnam problems
often require definitions from multiple fields, which standard
textbooks do not necessarily target. Formalizations in P UTNAM B ENCH include concepts from a
wide range of mathematical fields, including: (i) Analysis: Limits, integrals, derivatives, continuity;
(ii) Linear Algebra: Matrices, determinants, fields; (iii) Abstract Algebra: Rings, groups, magmas,
permutations; (iv) Algebra: Polynomials, inequalities, algebraic expressions; (v) Number Theory:
Primes, irrationality, base representations, divisors, palindromes; (vi) Geometry: Polygons, point
sets, line intersections, Euclidean distance; (vii) Set Theory & Combinatorics: Countability, power
sets, discrete structures, games.

Multiple Languages. P UTNAM B ENCH contains formalizations of Putnam problems in Lean 4,
Isabelle, and Coq. The formalizations also include concepts defined in each proof assistant’s mathe-
matical repositories — notably, Mathlib, the HOL standard library, and Coquelicot (among various
Coq repositories). To the best of our knowledge, P UTNAM B ENCH is the first undergraduate-level
competition benchmark for each of these languages. Furthermore, we are the first to produce a
human mathematics competition-style evaluation benchmark for Coq.
We hope that this contribution can enable Coq practitioners access to the rapidly-growing field of
machine learning for mathematics.

                                                  3
Generally, the formalizations of the problems are aligned in their structure, including hypothesis
naming and framing. Differences may arise according to the underlying foundations of each lan-
guage. We also note that the pre-defined mathematical theory in each language differs, which can
sometimes lead to difficulties formalizing certain problems.
Compared to the prior benchmarks M INI F2F, F IMO, and P ROOF N ET, P UTNAM B ENCH is the first
to support Lean 4 on initial release † .
Factored Solutions. Roughly 60% of Putnam problems, in their natural language form, require
exhibiting a (closed-form) solution along with a proof of its correctness. Such problems do not assert
propositions, and hence are not immediately formalizable as they are not directly the statement of a
theorem. Prior benchmarks such as M INI F2F (Zheng et al., 2021) sidestep this issue by rewording
the problem statement to ask for a proof that the solution satisfies the constraints of the problem.
However, this reduction diminishes the overall difficulty of the problem, as producing a solution
can constitute the majority of the difficulty. To address this issue, we factor out solutions of such
problems from the formalized theorem statement. We include an example in Figure 2. In this way,
we provide two tasks for neural theorem proving:
 • Task 1: Given the theorem statement, first identify the (closed-form) solution, and then provide
   a proof of correctness by rewriting the solution into the theorem statement.
 • Task 2: Given the theorem statement and solution, produce a proof of its correctness. This task
   aligns with the current benchmarks.
We note that the process of producing the numerical solution may be highly correlated with the
proof of its correctness. In this way, our formalizations can reflect the true difficulty of the informal
problem statement.
Formalization effort and challenges. We
                                                Putnam 2008 B5. Find all continuously differ-
hand-crafted our benchmark over the
                                                entiable functions f : R → R such that for every
course of several months as a team of
                                                rational number q, the number f (q) is rational and
two doctoral and five undergraduate stu-
                                                has the same denominator as q.
dents with prior experience in university
mathematics, computer science, and for-
mal proof assistants. We found that the
                                                abbrev solution : Set (R → R) :=
average time-to-formalize a single prob-             {fun (x : R) => x + n | n : Z} ∪
lem in one language was roughly 25 min-              {fun (x : R) => -x + n | n : Z}
utes. Each formalization was verified by a      theorem putnam_2008_b5
second person at least once, and we mea-        (fqsat : (R → R) → Q → Prop)
sured that the verification of a single for-    (hfqsat : ∀ f q, fqsat f q ↔
malization took between 10 minutes, on               ContDiff R 1 f ∧
average. We acknowledge that the time-               (∃ p : Q, p = f q ∧ p.den = q.den)) :
to-formalize we report is higher than that      ∀ f : (R → R), (∀ q : Q, fqsat f q)
of M INI F2F; we believe this is largely due    ↔ f ∈ solution :=
to the increased complexity of the Putnam
problems, which oftentimes require defini-
tions we must locate in each language’s re- Figure 2: A formalization of Putnam 2008 B5 in Lean
spective mathematical libraries.             4. As the problem requires exhibiting the set of func-
                                             tions f satisfying the specified conditions, it is not di-
We first produced formalizations in Lean rectly the statement of a theorem. We formalize the
4, and then proceeded with our formaliza- problem by instantiating a variable “solution” outside
tion effort in Isabelle and then Coq. Due to of the theorem statement. In this way, a model can
differences in the underlying foundations either provide its own candidate, or use the correct so-
of each language, we found that formal- lution we provide and attempt to produce a proof of
izations in one language sometimes do not correctness. Benchmarks such as M INI F2F and F IMO
directly transfer to another; for example, only include formalizations with the solution written
Isabelle does not have a subtyping mecha- into the theorem statement.
nism, which we made extensive use of in
   †
     M INI F2F, F IMO, and P ROOF N ET were originally released using Lean 3, and M INI F2F and F IMO
have been updated to include Lean 4 formalizations following community efforts. (Azerbayev et al., 2023;
Vishwakarma et al., 2024). To the best of our knowledge, no open-sourced Lean 4 version of FIMO currently
exists.


                                                   4
Lean 4. Formalizations in Coq rely on a number of mathematics repositories. Predominantly, we rely
on MathComp and MathComp-Analysis (Mathcomp, 2015; mathcomp-analysis), but also make us
of Stdlib, Stdpp, Coquelicot, GeoCoq, and Coqtail (Coquelicot, 2015; GeoCoq, 2015; Allais et al.).
Some problems are not naturally amenable to formalization — for example, we found that while
formalizing problems involving probabilities is possible, such formalizations often require heavy
probability theory. Similarly, support for problems involving Euclidean geometry varies across lan-
guages; in particular, Lean 4 does not yet have a sufficiently extensive library to make most geom-
etry problems formalizable. By contrast, Coq has an extensive geometry repository called GeoCoq,
which we utilize for our Coq formalizations.
Dataset Contamination. Our bench-
mark is unique compared to in-
formal benchmarks such as MATH            (a) theorem putnam_2006_b2
(Hendrycks et al., 2021) and GSM8K        (n : N)
(Cobbe et al., 2021) in the sense that    (npos : n > 0)
the target output has never been pro-     (X : Finset R)
duced, hence avoiding direct contami-     (hXcard : X.card = n)
nation. To the best of our knowledge,     : (∃ S ⊆ X, S 6= ∅ ∧ ∃ m : Z,
we are the first to provide formaliza-        |m + Σ s in S, s| ≤ 1 / (n + 1))
tions of a large collection of Putnam
problems in any of Lean, Isabelle,
and Coq. Since writing a formal           (b) theorem putnam_2006_b2:
proof requires the formal theorem         fixes n :: nat
statement, it is highly unlikely any      and X :: "real set"
possible formal proof has been writ-      assumes npos: "n > 0"
ten for any of our problems. We per-      and hXcard: "finite X ∧ card X = n"
formed a thorough investigation of        shows "∃ S ⊆ X. (S 6= {}) ∧ (∃ m :: int.
formal mathematics repositories for           ¦m + (Σ s ∈ S. s)¦ ≤ 1 / (n + 1))"
each language for confirmation, find-
ing no aligned theorems and proofs
from the Putnam Competition. We do        (c) Theorem putnam_2006_b2
not include any of the formal proofs      (n : nat)
in our benchmark.                         (hn : gt n 0)
Furthermore, any proofs found by au-      (X : seq R)
                                          (hX : uniq X /\ size X = n)
tomated methods in our evaluations        : exists S : seq R,
are not included and are only men-            subseq S X /\
tioned in this article. Indirect con-         size S <> 0%nat /\
tamination can occur through transfer         exists m : int,
from training on the informal proofs,         `|m%:~R + \sum_(s <- S) s| <= 1 / (n%:R + 1).
though producing proofs in formal
proof environments still presents a
major difficulty for all current neural
methods, as we find in Section 4.       Figure 3: Formalizations of Putnam 2006 B2 in (a) Lean 4,
                                        (b) Isabelle, (c) Coq. Putnam 2006 B2 asserts that given a
Licensing and Rules of Engage- finite subset X ⊆ R with |X| = n > 0, there is a nonempty
ment. P UTNAM B ENCH is available subset S ⊆ X and an m ∈ Z such that |m + s∈S s| ≤
                                                                                        P
under an Apache 2.0 license for Lean      1
                                             .
4 and Isabelle, and under an MIT li- n+1
cense for Coq. We align the licenses with those of the repositories we use for each language.
With permission from the MAA, we include the informal statements as sourced from the com-
petition (Alexanderson et al., 1985; Kedlaya et al., 2002, 2020). We host a public leaderboard
at https://trishullab.github.io/PutnamBench/ and will readily accept evaluation results from future
works.

4 Experimental Evaluation
To understand the challenges that P UTNAM B ENCH poses for state-of-the-art theorem-proving ap-
proaches, we attempt to solve its problems using a suite of such approaches. Given the relative

                                                5
  P UTNAM B ENCH: Lean                                                P UTNAM B ENCH: Coq
                                      P UTNAM B ENCH: Isabelle
Method        Success Rate                                          Method       Success Rate
                                     Method        Success Rate
GPT-4                    1/640                                      GPT-4               1/412
                                     GPT-4              1/640
COPRA                    1/640                                      COPRA               1/412
                                     DSP                4/640
ReProver (+r)            0/640                                      Tactician           0/412
                                     Sledgehammer       3/640
ReProver (−r)            0/640                                      CoqHammer           0/412

Table 3: Results of evaluations on P UTNAM B ENCH in each language. We find that all tested method-
ologies perform poorly, solving at most a handful of problems. Notably, the only problem solved in
both Lean and Coq is Putnam 1988 B1, which is not solved by any method in Isabelle. ReProver,
our finetuned baseline for Lean, is unable to solve any problems with or without retrieval. Symbolic
automation proves to be powerful in Isabelle, with Sledgehammer solving the most problems than
GPT4 alone. DSP generates four successful proofs, two of which cannot be generated by Sledge-
hammer alone.

lack of tailored systems for multi-language theorem-proving, we run evaluations for each language
separately. Any method that is evaluated on multiple languages is based on off-the-shelf foundation
models.
Metrics. Our evaluation is based on the pass@n (Lample et al., 2022) metric. This metric measures
a prover’s ability to produce a successful proof, as determined by the formal proof environment,
given a budget of n proof attempts. In search-based methods (Thakur et al., 2024), each proof
attempt involves a distinct search that can query a neural model multiple times.
Models. For each of the languages, we perform evaluations using GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023) ‡ , a
highly capable foundation model. We run evaluations using in-context learning, appending several
examples of successful proofs of simple theorems in each language. For evaluations with Lean 4
approaches, we note that many approaches have targeted Lean 3, which is not backward-compatible
and no longer actively maintained. We evaluate C OPRA (Thakur et al., 2024) on P UTNAM B ENCH,
modifying the prompt examples of C OPRA to enable search in Lean 4. Furthermore, we run eval-
uations LeanDojo’s retrieval-augmented prover R E P ROVER, a finetuned model designed to utilize
incorporate retrieved lemmas as part of the proof search. We also include evaluations with the re-
trieval component held out.
For our Isabelle experiments, we run evaluations of Draft, Sketch, and Prove (DSP) (Jiang et al.,
2022b) using GPT-4 as the underlying foundation model, noting that many further works for
theorem-proving in Isabelle have extended on the DSP pipeline as we mention in Section 5. We
also run evaluations using stand-alone invocations to Sledgehammer, a powerful symbolic automa-
tion tool in Isabelle that relies on calls to external SMT solvers.
As for our Coq experiments, prior neural approaches for Coq have mostly targeted software verifi-
cation tasks, as opposed to competition mathematics. As a result, our Coq experiments use C OPRA,
which also supports theorem-proving in Coq. We evaluate using the Tactician (Blaauwbroek et al.,
2020) platform with the locality sensitive hashing model configuration. We also run evaluations
using CoqHammer (Czajka & Kaliszyk, 2018), a tool similar to Isabelle’s Sledgehammer, which
makes calls to external constraint solvers.

4.1 Results

Lean 4. We prompt GPT-4 in a pass@10, setting temperature T = 0.7 and using several examples
of simple theorems and proofs, to generate a proof for each problem. The result of this experiment
yields a single successful proof across all 640 Lean formalizations. The problem (Putnam 1988 B1)
and the generated proof are given in Figure 1. In particular, Putnam 1988 B1 is solved on the first of
10 attempts. An example of a failure mode of GPT-4 is given in Figure 18.
We also run evaluations with COPRA, using their default hyperparameters for search, performing
a pass@1, and allowing 60 queries to GPT-4. However, since COPRA was originally designed for
interaction with Lean 3, we make a small modification to its system prompt to enable search in Lean
4. The result of the step-wise proof search over all Lean 4 formalizations yields a correct proof
   ‡
       We use GPT-4o for all our evaluations


                                                    6
to one problem (1988 B1). We find that backtracking in the search was not required for this proof,
which was 10 lines long and was found at the 10th query. It is possible that affording COPRA further
queries to GPT-4 can yield more successful proofs, though it is not yet feasible to perform such an
experiment due to the cost of queries to GPT-4.
We found that, by default, GPT-4 produces proofs using Lean 3 syntax, which is not compatible with
Lean 4. Even when directed to produce outputs in Lean 4, GPT-4 typically continues to produce
outputs in Lean 3. Our prompt, which we include in Figure 16, elucidates some design differences
in Lean 4 to better enforce compliance with the Lean 4 syntax. However, we noticed many examples
where GPT-4 continues to output terms in Lean 3 syntax. One such example is given in Figure 17.
We run R E P ROVER using the standard search parameters used in LeanDojo (Yang et al., 2023). Our
evaluation yields no successfully proven problems, with and without the inclusion of the retrieval
module. We believe that Putnam 1988 B1, which the other methods solve, is not solved by R E -
P ROVER as it requires an understanding that the choice of x, y, z = 1, a − 1, b − 1 will eventually
satisfy the conditions of the goal after simplification. Smaller models, like the one driving R E -
P ROVER’s search, may not be as readily capable of such understanding.

Isabelle. We run GPT-4 using the same configuration, with modified prompts for Isabelle, on our
Isabelle formalizations. We find that GPT-4 can produce a single successful proof to Putnam 1986
B1, a geometric problem stated algebraically. We include the statement and its proof as generated
by GPT-4 in Figure 19.
DSP represents a neurosymbolic            Putnam 2001 A1. Consider a set S and a binary op-
methodology which has seen signifi-       eration ⋆, i.e., for each a, b ∈ S, a ⋆ b ∈ S. Assume
cant application for theorem-proving      (a ⋆ b) ⋆ a = b for all a, b ∈ S. Prove that a ⋆ (b ⋆ a) = b
in M INI F2F. We run DSP with             for all a, b ∈ S.
pass@10, using temperature T =
0.1 and GPT-4 as the underlying lan-
guage model. Our evaluation yields        theorem putnam_2001_a1:
four successful proofs: of Putnam           fixes op :: "'a ⇒ 'a ⇒ 'a"
2001 A1 and 1971 B1, two problems           assumes hop : "∀a b :: 'a.
involving magmas (sets with a binary          op (op a b) a = b"
operation), one of Putnam 1995 A1,          shows "∀a b :: 'a. op a (op b a) = b"
a problem involving a closed-under-       proof -
multiplication subset of the reals, and     {
Putnam 1986 B1. In particular, Put-           fix a b :: 'a
                                              have "op (op a (op b a)) a = op b a" using
nam 1995 A1 and 1986 B1 cannot be
                                              hop by simp
solved by Sledgehammer alone. The             then have "op a (op b a) = b" using hop by
generated proof of Putnam 1995 A1             metis
is included in Figure 4.                    }
We run a baseline using Sledgeham-          then show ?thesis by simp
                                          qed
mer, a powerful automation tool in
Isabelle which makes calls to exter-
nal SMT solvers to prove a given
                                        Figure 4: A formalization of Putnam 2001 A1 in Isabelle
goal. With a set timeout of t = 120
                                        and the corresponding proof discovered by our evaluation
seconds, we run Sledgehammer on
                                        with DSP. Sledgehammer alone can also produce a success-
each Isabelle formalization. The re-
                                        ful proof to this theorem.
sult of this evaluation is 3 success-
fully proven problems: Putnam 1971 B1, 2001 A1, and 2012 A2. Notably, all of these problems are
statements about sets with binary operations. We include the statements of 1971 B1 and 2012 A2 in
Figure 22.

Coq. We run GPT-4 with a Coq-based prompt on our Coq formalizations using the same config-
uration as in Lean and Isabelle. The result of the experiment is 1 solved problem, namely Putnam
1988 B1, which was also solved in Lean 4. The proof, which we include in Figure 14, generally
follows the same structure as the proof in Lean.
An evaluation with COPRA, in a pass@1-with-60-queries and T = 0.0 also yields a successful
proof only for Putnam 1988 B1 which we include in Figure 14. In this case, backtracking was

                                                 7
crucial for proof search on this problem. The crucial step in 1988 B1 is the choice of x, y, z once a
and b have been introduced. Initially, COPRA predicts the erroneous choice x, y, z = 1, 1, ab − 1
and eventually reverts this choice using backtracking. Afterwards, COPRA predicts a correct choice
x, y, z = 1, a − 1, b − 1 and proceeds with the proof.
We run Tactician using the locality sensitive hashing model with a timeout of t = 600s per problem.
Our evaluation yields no successfully proven problems. While showing favorable performance on
theorems drawn from Coq’s standard library (Zhang et al., 2021), such methodologies do not as of
yet scale to challenging olympiad-style problems.
We run CoqHammer with 8 parallel threads using an ATP timeout of 100 seconds, proof reconstruc-
tion timeout of 15 seconds, and sauto timeout of 5 seconds, for a total of 120 seconds allocated for
each formalization. The evaluation yields no successful proofs — indicating that symbolic tools in
Coq are not yet capable of handling P UTNAM B ENCH problems. It is not surprising that CoqHam-
mer does not match the performance of Sledgehammer even though they rely on the same external
solvers. The underlying logical system of Coq is more complex than that of Isabelle and is hence
less amenable to automation.


4.2 General Analysis

Aggregating over all experiments performed in all languages, we find that a total of 6 problems in
P UTNAM B ENCH are successfully proven. A majority of these come from evaluations in Isabelle,
particularly with strong contributions from Sledgehammer. Sledgehammer can solve all three prob-
lems involving magmas which appear in our benchmark but fails to produce successful proofs for
any other formalization. DSP solves an additional two problems and relies heavily on Sledgeham-
mer to fill in the proofs of intermediate steps. The single problem solved in Lean and Coq also
makes use of automated tactics like linarith and lia, and requires only a single crucial step.
Hence, we find that a few P UTNAM B ENCH problems are not entirely intractable using current meth-
ods. However, anecdotally, these problems are among the easiest ever included in the Putnam compe-
tition. All admit a very short natural language proof and do not require reasoning about particularly
complicated objects. We believe that significant advancements in automated mathematical reasoning
are required to make progress on P UTNAM B ENCH.


5 Related Work

Formal Benchmarks. Several evaluation benchmarks for formal mathematics have been developed
in recent years. M INI F2F (Zheng et al., 2021) is a formal-to-formal benchmark of competition
problems, sourced from high school competitions such as the AMC, AIME, and IMO. M INI F2F
is a multi-language benchmark, comprising of 488 problems each formalized in Lean 3, Metamath,
Isabelle and HOL Light. We chose not to include formalizations in Metamath and HOL Light as
they have not been the focus of attention for neural theorem-proving. A similar competition-style
benchmark is FIMO (Liu et al., 2023), which contains 149 Lean 3 formalizations of IMO shortlist
problems produced using a back-translation procedure with GPT-4. The automatically-generated
formalizations are then manually verified. Both benchmarks are designed to measure certifying the
solution to the informal problem statement when one exists. Compfiles (2024) is a collection of
171 Lean 4 formalizations of competition problems, predominantly from the IMO and USAMO,
often accompanied by a formal proof, which has not seen use in benchmarking automated theorem-
provers. ProofNet (Azerbayev et al., 2023) introduced a benchmark of 371 exercises, formalized
in Lean 3, from standard textbooks in the undergraduate mathematics curriculum. While largely
not competition-based, problems in ProofNet draw from a broader library of concepts than miniF2F
and FIMO, which rely only on high-school mathematics. LeanDojo (Yang et al., 2023) introduces a
dataset of formal mathematics and proofs derived from Lean’s mathlib library (mathlib Community,
2020), and trains a retrieval-augmented model towards generating proofs on their held-out test set.
ProverBot9001 (Sanchez-Stern et al., 2020) introduced a dataset for theorems and proofs written in
Coq derived from CompCert (Leroy, 2009), a formally verified C compiler. PISA (Jiang et al., 2021)
is a dataset derived from Isabelle’s Archive of Formal Proofs (AFP), which contains theorems and
proofs from general mathematics as opposed to specifically competition problems.

                                                 8
Informal Benchmarks. There are also several popular benchmarks for informal (natural-language)
mathematical reasoning. MATH (Hendrycks et al., 2021) is a collection of 12,500 mathematics
problems, in natural language only, sourced from various high school competitions additionally sup-
plied with step-by-step informal proofs. GSM8K (Cobbe et al., 2021) is a collection of 8,500 grade
school mathematics problems, intended to benchmark natural language reasoning for mathematics-
style problems. While benefiting from the abundance of natural language data, these benchmarks
fall short, since in natural language, there is no automatic mechanism for certifiable verification of
the reasoning path which yielded the numerical answer. For this reason, metrics for success on these
benchmarks usually rely on exact-answer match, because verifying reasoning paths is imprecise and
is best done by human experts. By contrast, theorem proving in formal proof assistants comes with
a high-confidence signal for correctness of the reasoning path, or proof, of a theorem.

Methods for Formal Theorem-Proving. Significant effort has been spent on developing automatic
theorem-provers for formal mathematics (Li et al., 2024). Most recent efforts train a neural mod-
ule to perform proof-step prediction, which is then wrapped in a search mechanism to locate a valid
proof. GPT-f (Polu & Sutskever, 2020) trains a transformer-based architecture on data derived from
the Metamath library (Megill & Wheeler, 2019) for proof synthesis. PACT expands on GPT-f by
incorporating auxiliary training tasks for the neural module towards theorem-proving in Lean 3. FM-
SCL (Polu et al., 2022) alternates proof-search and training to finetune their neural model based on
proofs found during search. HTPS (Lample et al., 2022) uses a transformer-based neural module in
an online, MCTS-inspired proof search in Lean 3 and Metamath. COPRA (Thakur et al., 2024) uses
GPT-4 supplied with error feedback from the environment and lemmas from a retrieval mechanism
for an agentic proof-search in Lean 3 and Coq. LLEMMA (Azerbayev et al., 2024) continues pre-
training of Code Llama on a mathematics-based corpus dubbed Proof-Pile-2, and uses their learned
model for formal proof search in Lean 4. DeepSeek-Prover Xin et al. (2024) produces synthetic
Lean data en-masse for training their prover model. AlphaGeometry (Trinh et al., 2024) targets
IMO problems in a geometry-specific proof assistant language using an interleaving search, where
a neural module synthesizes auxiliary constructions and a symbolic engine produces deductive clo-
sures.
The Isabelle proof assistant (Paulson, 1994), given its declarative nature and powerful symbolic
automation, has too been the focus of much attention for neural theorem proving. Isabelle features
Sledgehammer (Paulson & Blanchette, 2015), an automated reasoning tool which calls external auto-
mated theorem provers (ATPs) for proof synthesis. Draft, Sketch, Prove (DSP) (Jiang et al., 2022b)
uses a high-caliber LLM to generate natural language proofs and converts them into formal sketches
in Isabelle, whose gaps are then filled using Sledgehammer. Zhao et al. (2023) employed a diffu-
sion model to predict an optimal ordering of the few-shot examples provided to the LLM in the
DSP pipeline. Lyra (Zheng et al., 2023) utilized error-feedback from Isabelle’s execution to modify
holes in the sketch which were too difficult for the symbolic prover. POETRY (Wang et al., 2024)
leverages recursion for theorem-proving and trains a neural module to produce proof sketches, as
opposed to using in-context learning with an LLM. LEGO-Prover (Wang et al., 2023) extends the
pipeline by incorporating a skill library which grows throughout the proof search task. Separate from
approaches utilizing natural language proofs, Thor (Jiang et al., 2022a) trains a transformer-based
architecture to predict successful invocations of Sledgehammer, along with the usual proof-step ob-
jective. Baldur (First et al., 2023) explored repairing erroneous proofs in Isabelle through the use of
LLMs.
The Coq interactive theorem prover has seen use in both software verification and general mathe-
matics. Famously, mechanized proofs of the Four Colour Theorem (Robertson et al., 1997) and the
Feit-Thompson theorem (Gonthier et al., 2013) were produced in Coq. Similarly, numerous soft-
ware verification projects have been undertaken in Coq, such as CompCert (a formally verified C
compiler) and Verdi (Wilcox et al., 2015) (a framework for verifying distributed systems protocols).
ASTactic (Yang & Deng, 2019) trained a neural module involving recurrent networks and attention
on data collected from various Coq repositories. Proverbot9001 (Sanchez-Stern et al., 2020) targeted
proof synthesis on a set of held-out theorems from the CompCert project. COPRA (Thakur et al.,
2024) also evaluates on this CompCert-based task using their multi-language approach. Tactician
(Blaauwbroek et al., 2020) develops a platform for proof automation for the Coq practitioner, with
support for experimenting with new machine learning techniques for tactic prediction and proof
search. (Zhang et al., 2021) explores several online learning techniques inside Tactician, including
an approximate k-nearest neighbors method via locality sensitive hashing which we use for our

                                                  9
evaluation. Graph2Tac (Blaauwbroek et al., 2024) uses graph neural networks for learning online
hierarchical representations of new theorems and definitions, and is used for proof search within
Tactician.

6 Conclusion
We presented P UTNAM B ENCH, a benchmark for neural theorem-proving consisting of formaliza-
tions of Putnam competition problems. A distinctive feature of P UTNAM B ENCH is that it spans a
broad range of undergraduate-level mathematical topics, including algebra, analysis, and number
theory. Another unique benefit is that it includes problems in Lean 4, Isabelle, and Coq, the three
most popular formal proof frameworks.
As our experiments show, P UTNAM B ENCH is a challenging benchmark: all current theorem-proving
approaches fail to solve more than a handful of its problems. We believe that these failures include
two root causes: (i) While current theorem-provers can effectively stitch together standard proof
steps well-represented in the training corpus, they often fail at synthesizing new lemmas and or-
chestrating these lemmas into intricate proofs. (ii) Current methods often fail to leverage the deep
knowledge available in mathematics repositories. Developing a new generation of neural theorem-
provers in which these weaknesses are at least partly addressed is an exciting direction of future
research.

Acknowledgements. This work was supported by NSF awards CCF-2212559 and CCF-2403211,
the NSF Institute for Foundations of Machine Learning, and a gift by the Aziz Family Founda-
tion. We thank Oliver Nash, Eric Wieser, Edward Lockhart, Fabian Gloeckle, Karl Palmskog, Lasse
Blaauwbroek, Jason Rute, and Kaiyu Yang for useful discussions, aiding in benchmark maintenance,
and support with setting up experiments.

References
AFP. Archive of Formal Proofs — isa-afp.org. https://www.isa-afp.org/, 2004. [Accessed
  25-05-2024].

G.L. Alexanderson, L.F. Klosinski, and L.C. Larson. The William Lowell Putnam Math-
  ematical Competition: Problems and Solutions, 1965-1984.   MAA problem books se-
  ries. Mathematical Association of America, 1985.     ISBN 9780883854419.    URL
  https://books.google.com/books?id=mv0oAQAAMAAJ.

Guillaume Allais, Sylvain Dailler, Hugo Férée, Jean-Marie Madiot, Pierre-Marie Pédrot, and
 Amaury Pouly. Coqtail-math. URL https://github.com/coq-community/coqtail-math.

Zhangir Azerbayev, Bartosz Piotrowski, Hailey Schoelkopf, Edward W. Ayers, Dragomir Radev,
  and Jeremy Avigad. Proofnet: Autoformalizing and formally proving undergraduate-level mathe-
  matics, 2023.

Zhangir Azerbayev, Hailey Schoelkopf, Keiran Paster, Marco Dos Santos, Stephen McAleer, Al-
  bert Q. Jiang, Jia Deng, Stella Biderman, and Sean Welleck. Llemma: An Open Language Model
  For Mathematics, 2024.

Lasse Blaauwbroek, Josef Urban, and Herman Geuvers. The Tactician: A Seamless, In-
  teractive Tactic Learner and Prover for Coq, pp. 271–277. Springer International Pub-
  lishing, 2020.    ISBN 9783030535186.     doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-53518-6_17.     URL
  http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-53518-6_17.

Lasse Blaauwbroek, Miroslav Olšák, Jason Rute, Fidel Ivan Schaposnik Massolo, Jelle Piepenbrock,
  and Vasily Pestun. Graph2tac: Online representation learning of formal math concepts, 2024.
  URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02949.

IMO Grand Challenge.       IMO Grand Challenge — imo-grand-challenge.github.io.
  https://imo-grand-challenge.github.io/, 2019. [Accessed 01-06-2024].

                                                10
Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser,
  Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, Christopher Hesse, and John
  Schulman. Training verifiers to solve math word problems, 2021.
William-Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition. William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Compe-
 tition | Mathematical Association of America — maa.org. https://maa.org/putnam-2/, 2024.
 [Accessed 08-07-2024].
Compfiles. GitHub - dwrensha/compfiles: Catalog Of Math Problems Formalized In Lean —
  github.com. https://github.com/dwrensha/compfiles, 2024. [Accessed 25-05-2024].
Coquelicot. Coquelicot. https://gitlab.inria.fr/coquelicot/coquelicot, 2015. [Accessed
  01-06-2024].
Łukasz Czajka and Cezary Kaliszyk. Hammer for coq: Automation for dependent type theory.
  Journal of automated reasoning, 61:423–453, 2018.
Emily First, Markus N Rabe, Talia Ringer, and Yuriy Brun. Baldur: whole-proof generation and
 repair with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04910, 2023.
GeoCoq. GitHub - GeoCoq/GeoCoq: A formalization of geometry in Coq based on Tarski’s axiom
  system — github.com. https://github.com/GeoCoq/GeoCoq, 2015. [Accessed 01-06-2024].
Georges Gonthier, Andrea Asperti, Jeremy Avigad, Yves Bertot, Cyril Cohen, François Garillot,
  Stéphane Le Roux, Assia Mahboubi, Russell O’Connor, Sidi Ould Biha, Ioana Pasca, Laurence
  Rideau, Alexey Solovyev, Enrico Tassi, and Laurent Théry. A machine-checked proof of the
  odd order theorem. In Sandrine Blazy, Christine Paulin-Mohring, and David Pichardie (eds.),
  Interactive Theorem Proving, pp. 163–179, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2013. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
  ISBN 978-3-642-39634-2.
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Saurav Kadavath, Akul Arora, Steven Basart, Eric Tang, Dawn Song,
  and Jacob Steinhardt. Measuring mathematical problem solving with the math dataset, 2021.
Albert Q. Jiang, Wenda Li, Szymon Tworkowski, Konrad Czechowski, Tomasz Odrzygóźdź, Piotr
  Miłoś, Yuhuai Wu, and Mateja Jamnik. Thor: Wielding hammers to integrate language models
  and automated theorem provers, 2022a.
Albert Q Jiang, Sean Welleck, Jin Peng Zhou, Wenda Li, Jiacheng Liu, Mateja Jamnik, Timothée
  Lacroix, Yuhuai Wu, and Guillaume Lample. Draft, sketch, and prove: Guiding formal theorem
  provers with informal proofs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.12283, 2022b.
Albert Qiaochu Jiang, Wenda Li, Jesse Michael Han, and Yuhuai Wu. Lisa: Language models of
  isabelle proofs, 2021.
K.S. Kedlaya, B. Poonen, R. Vakil, and Mathematical Association of America. The William Lowell
  Putnam Mathematical Competition 1985-2000: Problems, Solutions and Commentary. MAA
  Problem Book Series. Mathematical Association of America, 2002. ISBN 9780883858073. URL
  https://books.google.com/books?id=AA-lOA1nPDcC.
K.S. Kedlaya, D.M. Kane, J.M. Kane, and E.M. O’Dorney.        The William Lowell Put-
  nam Mathematical Competition 2001–2016: Problems, Solutions, and Commentary. Prob-
  lem Books. American Mathematical Society, 2020.      ISBN 9781470454272.      URL
  https://books.google.com/books?id=QwGWzQEACAAJ.
Guillaume Lample, Timothee Lacroix, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Aurelien Rodriguez, Amaury Hayat,
 Thibaut Lavril, Gabriel Ebner, and Xavier Martinet. Hypertree proof search for neural theorem
  proving. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:26337–26349, 2022.
Xavier Leroy.   Formal verification of a realistic compiler.  Commun. ACM, 52(7):
 107–115, jul 2009.     ISSN 0001-0782.       doi: 10.1145/1538788.1538814. URL
  https://doi.org/10.1145/1538788.1538814.
Zhaoyu Li, Jialiang Sun, Logan Murphy, Qidong Su, Zenan Li, Xian Zhang, Kaiyu Yang, and Xujie
  Si. A survey on deep learning for theorem proving, 2024.

                                               11
Chengwu Liu, Jianhao Shen, Huajian Xin, Zhengying Liu, Ye Yuan, Haiming Wang, Wei Ju,
  Chuanyang Zheng, Yichun Yin, Lin Li, Ming Zhang, and Qun Liu. Fimo: A challenge formal
  dataset for automated theorem proving, 2023.
Mathcomp.  GitHub - math-comp/math-comp: Mathematical Components — github.com.
 https://github.com/math-comp/math-comp, 2015. [Accessed 01-06-2024].
mathcomp-analysis. GitHub - math-comp/analysis: Mathematical Components compliant Analysis
 Library — github.com. https://github.com/math-comp/analysis, 2017. [Accessed 05-06-
 2024].
The mathlib Community. The lean mathematical library. In Proceedings of the 9th ACM SIGPLAN
  International Conference on Certified Programs and Proofs, POPL ’20. ACM, January 2020. doi:
  10.1145/3372885.3373824. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3372885.3373824.
Norman D. Megill and David A. Wheeler.      Metamath: A Computer Language for
 Pure Mathematics, 2019.     URL http://us.metamath.org/downloads/metamath.pdf.
  http://us.metamath.org/downloads/metamath.pdf.
Leonardo de Moura and Sebastian Ullrich. The lean 4 theorem prover and programming language.
  In Automated Deduction–CADE 28: 28th International Conference on Automated Deduction,
  Virtual Event, July 12–15, 2021, Proceedings 28, pp. 625–635. Springer, 2021.
Allen Newell, John Clifford Shaw, and Herbert A Simon. Empirical explorations of the logic theory
  machine: a case study in heuristic. In Papers presented at the February 26-28, 1957, western
  joint computer conference: Techniques for reliability, pp. 218–230, 1957.
OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report, 2023.
Lawrence Paulson and Jasmin Blanchette. Three years of experience with sledgehammer, a practical
  link between automatic and interactive theorem provers, 02 2015.
Lawrence C Paulson. Isabelle: A generic theorem prover. Springer, 1994.
Stanislas Polu and Ilya Sutskever. Generative language modeling for automated theorem proving.
  arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.03393, 2020.
Stanislas Polu, Jesse Michael Han, Kunhao Zheng, Mantas Baksys, Igor Babuschkin, and Ilya
  Sutskever. Formal mathematics statement curriculum learning, 2022.
Prize. AIMO Prize — aimoprize.com. https://aimoprize.com/, 2023. [Accessed 01-06-2024].
Neil Robertson, Daniel Sanders, Paul Seymour, and Robin Thomas.                The four-
  colour theorem.      Journal of Combinatorial Theory, Series B, 70(1):2–44,
 1997.      ISSN 0095-8956.     doi:   https://doi.org/10.1006/jctb.1997.1750.     URL
  https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0095895697917500.
Alex Sanchez-Stern, Yousef Alhessi, Lawrence Saul, and Sorin Lerner. Generating correctness
  proofs with neural networks. In Proceedings of the 4th ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop
  on Machine Learning and Programming Languages, pp. 1–10, 2020.
Amitayush Thakur, George Tsoukalas, Yeming Wen, Jimmy Xin, and Swarat Chaudhuri. An In-
 Context Learning Agent for Formal Theorem-Proving. In First Conference on Language Model-
 ing, 2024.
The Coq Development Team. The Coq Proof Assistant, September 2023.
Trieu H Trinh, Yuhuai Wu, Quoc V Le, He He, and Thang Luong. Solving olympiad geometry
  without human demonstrations. Nature, 625(7995):476–482, 2024.
Rahul Vishwakarma,       Pietro Monticone,     and Abhijit Niser.         GitHub -
  rahul3613/ProofNet-lean4:    ProofNet dataset ported into Lean 4 — github.com.
  https://github.com/rahul3613/ProofNet-lean4, 2024. [Accessed 01-06-2024].

                                               12
Haiming Wang, Huajian Xin, Chuanyang Zheng, Lin Li, Zhengying Liu, Qingxing Cao, Yinya
  Huang, Jing Xiong, Han Shi, Enze Xie, Jian Yin, Zhenguo Li, Heng Liao, and Xiaodan Liang.
  Lego-prover: Neural theorem proving with growing libraries, 2023.
Haiming Wang, Huajian Xin, Zhengying Liu, Wenda Li, Yinya Huang, Jianqiao Lu, Zhicheng Yang,
  Jing Tang, Jian Yin, Zhenguo Li, and Xiaodan Liang. Proving theorems recursively, 2024.
Makarius Wenzel, Lawrence C Paulson, and Tobias Nipkow. The isabelle framework. In Theo-
 rem Proving in Higher Order Logics: 21st International Conference, TPHOLs 2008, Montreal,
 Canada, August 18-21, 2008. Proceedings 21, pp. 33–38. Springer, 2008.
James R. Wilcox, Doug Woos, Pavel Panchekha, Zachary Tatlock, Xi Wang, Michael D. Ernst,
  and Thomas Anderson. Verdi: a framework for implementing and formally verifying distributed
  systems. In Proceedings of the 36th ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language
  Design and Implementation, PLDI ’15, pp. 357–368, New York, NY, USA, 2015. Association
  for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450334686. doi: 10.1145/2737924.2737958. URL
  https://doi.org/10.1145/2737924.2737958.
Huajian Xin, Daya Guo, Zhihong Shao, Zhizhou Ren, Qihao Zhu, Bo Liu, Chong Ruan, Wenda Li,
  and Xiaodan Liang. Deepseek-prover: Advancing theorem proving in llms through large-scale
  synthetic data, 2024.
Kaiyu Yang and Jia Deng. Learning to prove theorems via interacting with proof assistants. In
  International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 6984–6994. PMLR, 2019.
Kaiyu Yang, Aidan M Swope, Alex Gu, Rahul Chalamala, Peiyang Song, Shixing Yu, Saad Godil,
  Ryan Prenger, and Anima Anandkumar. Leandojo: Theorem proving with retrieval-augmented
  language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.15626, 2023.

Liao Zhang, Lasse Blaauwbroek, Bartosz Piotrowski, Prokop Černý, Cezary Kaliszyk, and
  Josef Urban. Online machine learning techniques for coq: A comparison, 2021. URL
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.05207.
Xueliang Zhao, Wenda Li, and Lingpeng Kong. Decomposing the enigma: Subgoal-based demon-
  stration learning for formal theorem proving, 2023.
Chuanyang Zheng, Haiming Wang, Enze Xie, Zhengying Liu, Jiankai Sun, Huajian Xin, Jianhao
  Shen, Zhenguo Li, and Yu Li. Lyra: Orchestrating dual correction in automated theorem proving,
  2023.
Kunhao Zheng, Jesse Michael Han, and Stanislas Polu. Minif2f: a cross-system benchmark for
  formal olympiad-level mathematics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.00110, 2021.




                                              13
Checklist
    1. For all authors...
        (a) Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the pa-
            per’s contributions and scope? [Yes] We support our main claims in Section 3 and
            Section 4.
        (b) Did you describe the limitations of your work? [Yes] We discussed in Section 3 the
            challenges of formalizing certain problem categories such as geometry and probability
            due to the nature of support for such mathematical theory in each language.
        (c) Did you discuss any potential negative societal impacts of your work? [N/A] We do
            not anticipate any negative societal impact of our work.
        (d) Have you read the ethics review guidelines and ensured that your paper conforms
            to them? [Yes] We have read the ethics review guidelines and ensured our paper
            conforms to them.
    2. If you are including theoretical results...
        (a) Did you state the full set of assumptions of all theoretical results? [N/A] We do not
            include any theoretical results.
        (b) Did you include complete proofs of all theoretical results? [N/A] We do not include
            any theoretical results.
    3. If you ran experiments (e.g. for benchmarks)...
        (a) Did you include the code, data, and instructions needed to reproduce the main experi-
            mental results (either in the supplemental material or as a URL)? [Yes] We disclosed
            all information related to the experiments, which use open-sourced methods. We have
            also included the URL to our dataset: https://github.com/trishullab/PUTNAM/.
        (b) Did you specify all the training details (e.g., data splits, hyperparameters, how they
            were chosen)? [N/A] We did not perform any training.
        (c) Did you report error bars (e.g., with respect to the random seed after running exper-
            iments multiple times)? [No] We evaluate our selected methodologies using estab-
            lished metrics accepted by the neural theorem-proving community. See Section 4.
        (d) Did you include the total amount of compute and the type of resources used (e.g., type
            of GPUs, internal cluster, or cloud provider)? [Yes] Most of our experiments rely on
            calls to GPT-4, we include sampling details. We also mention the hyperparameters to
            calls to symbolic methods in Section 4.
    4. If you are using existing assets (e.g., code, data, models) or curating/releasing new assets...
        (a) If your work uses existing assets, did you cite the creators? [Yes] We did cite the
            creators of any existing assets we used.
        (b) Did you mention the license of the assets? [Yes] We aligned the license of our bench-
            mark with the license of those assets.
        (c) Did you include any new assets either in the supplemental material or as
            a URL? [Yes]         We included our dataset by sharing the following URL:
            https://github.com/trishullab/PUTNAM/.
        (d) Did you discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose data
            you’re using/curating? [Yes] We obtained permission from the MAA.
        (e) Did you discuss whether the data you are using/curating contains personally identifi-
            able information or offensive content? [N/A] Our data does not contain such content.
    5. If you used crowdsourcing or conducted research with human subjects...
        (a) Did you include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if
            applicable? [N/A] We did not conduct research with human subjects nor crowdsource.
        (b) Did you describe any potential participant risks, with links to Institutional Review
            Board (IRB) approvals, if applicable? [N/A] We did not conduct research with human
            subjects nor crowdsource.
        (c) Did you include the estimated hourly wage paid to participants and the total amount
            spent on participant compensation? [N/A] We did not conduct research with human
            subjects nor crowdsource.


                                                14
A     Appendix
We include further examples of formalizations from P UTNAM B ENCH below.


    From mathcomp Require Import ssrbool seq ssrnat prime rat ssralg ssrnum ssrint.

    Local Open Scope ring_scope.

    Theorem putnam_2009_b1 :
      let fact_prod (ls : seq nat) : rat := \prod_(i <- ls) (i`!)%:Q in
      forall q : rat, q > 0 -> exists n d : seq nat,
      all prime (n ++ d) /\ fact_prod n / fact_prod d = q.
    Proof. Admitted.


     Figure 5: A formalization of Putnam 2009 B1 in Coq relying on the MathComp repository.



    Putnam 2001 B4. Let S denote the set of rational numbers different from {−1, 0, 1}. Define
    f : S → S by f (x) = x − 1/x. Prove or disprove that
                                         ∞
                                         \
                                               f (n) (S) = ∅,
                                         n=1

    where f (n) denotes f composed with itself n times.


    abbrev putnam_2001_b4_solution : Prop := True
    theorem putnam_2001_b4
        (S : Set Q)
        (hS : S = univ \ {-1, 0, 1})
        (f : S → S)
        (hf : ∀ x : S, f x = x - 1 / (x : Q))
        : ∩ n ∈ Ici 1, f^[n] '' univ = ∅ ↔ putnam_2001_b4_solution
        := sorry


Figure 6: A formalization of Putnam 2001 B4 in Lean 4. As the problem requires deciding whether
the infinite intersection is empty, it is not directly the statement of a theorem. We consider the
associated “solution” of this problem to be a boolean value, and factor it out from the theorem
statement. sorry is the placeholder keyword for Lean.




                                                  15
  Putnam 2020 A3. Let a0 = π/2, and let an = sin(an−1 ) for n ≥ 1. Determine whether
                                                  ∞
                                                  X
                                                        a2n
                                                  n=1
  converges.


  abbrev putnam_2020_a3_solution : Prop := False
  theorem putnam_2020_a3
      (a : N → R)
      (ha0 : a 0 = Real.pi / 2)
      (ha : ∀ n : N, n ≥ 1 → a n = Real.sin (a (n - 1)))
      : (∃ L : R, Tendsto (fun m : N => Σ n : Icc 1 m, (a n)^2) atTop (N L))
          ↔ putnam_2020_a3_solution
      := sorry


Figure 7: A formalization of Putnam 2020 A3 in Lean 4. As the problem requires deciding whether
the series converges, it is not directly the statement of a theorem. We consider the associated “solu-
tion” of this problem to be a boolean value, and factor it out from the theorem statement.




  Putnam 1997 A4. Let G be a group with identity e and φ : G → G a function such that
                                 φ(g1 )φ(g2 )φ(g3 ) = φ(h1 )φ(h2 )φ(h3 )
  whenever g1 g2 g3 = e = h1 h2 h3 . Prove that there exists an element a ∈ G such that ψ(x) =
  aφ(x) is a homomorphism.


  theorem putnam_1997_a4
      (G : Type*)
      [Group G]
      (ϕ : G → G)
      (hϕ : ∀ g1 g2 g3 h1 h2 h3 : G, (g1 * g2 * g3 = 1 ∧ h1 * h2 * h3 = 1)
      → ϕ g1 * ϕ g2 * ϕ g3 = ϕ h1 * ϕ h2 * ϕ h3)
      : ∃ a : G, let ψ := fun g => a * ϕ g; ∀ x y : G, ψ (x * y) = ψ x * ψ y
      := sorry


Figure 8: A formalization of Putnam 1997 A4, which requires knowledge of group theory, in Lean
4. The informal statement is slightly underspecified - g1 , g2 , g3 , h1 , h2 , h3 are not explicitly defined
to be in G. To produce the formalization, we must be specific about the type of gi , hi .




                                                     16
Putnam 2018 B1. Let P be the set of vectors defined by
                                                               
                          a
                 P=           0 ≤ a ≤ 2, 0 ≤ b ≤ 100, and a, b ∈ Z
                          b
Find all v ∈ P such that the set P\{v} obtained by omitting vector v from P can be partitioned
into two sets of equal size and equal sum.


abbrev putnam_2018_b1_solution : Set (Vector Z 2) :=
    {v : Vector Z 2 | ∃ b : Z, 0 ≤ b ∧ b ≤ 100 ∧ Even b ∧ v.toList = [1, b]}
theorem putnam_2018_b1
(v : Mathlib.Vector Z 2)
(P Pvdiff : Finset (Mathlib.Vector Z 2))
(hP : P =
    {v' : Mathlib.Vector Z 2 | 0 ≤ v'[0] ∧ v'[0] ≤ 2 ∧ 0 ≤ v'[1] ∧ v'[1] ≤ 100})

(hPvdiff : Pvdiff = P \ ({v} : Finset (Mathlib.Vector Z 2)))
: (v ∈ P ∧ (∃ Q R : Finset (Mathlib.Vector Z 2),
    (Q ∪ R = Pvdiff) ∧ (Q ∩ R = ∅) ∧ (Q.card = R.card) ∧
    (Σ q in Q, q[0] = Σ r in R, r[0]) ∧ (Σ q in Q, q[1] = Σ r in R, r[1])))
  ↔ v ∈ putnam_2018_b1_solution :=
sorry


Figure 9: A formalization of Putnam 2018 B1, which requires the Vector class from mathlib4.




Putnam 1992 B6. Let M be a set of real n × n matrices such that
     1. I ∈ M, where I is the n × n identity matrix;
     2. if A ∈ M and B ∈ M, then exactly one of AB ∈ M and −AB ∈ M holds;
     3. if A ∈ M and B ∈ M, then either AB = BA or AB = −BA;
     4. if A ∈ M and A 6= I, there is at least one B ∈ M such that AB = −BA.
Prove that M contains at most n2 matrices.


theorem putnam_1992_b6:
  fixes n :: nat
    and M :: "(real^'n^'n) set"
  assumes npos: "n > 0"
    and pncard: "CARD('n) = n"
    and h1: "mat 1 ∈ M"
    and h2: "∀A∈M. ∀B∈M. (A**B ∈ M) 6= (-A**B ∈ M)"
    and h3: "∀A∈M. ∀B∈M. (A**B = B**A) ∨ (A**B = -B**A)"
    and h4: "∀A∈M. (A 6= mat 1 → (∃B∈M. A**B = -B**A))"
  shows "card M ≤ n^2"
  sorry


                  Figure 10: An Isabelle formalization of Putnam 1992 B6.




                                             17
  Putnam 2012 A3. Let f : [−1, 1] → R be a continuous function such that
                       2      2
        1. f (x) = 2−x      x
                     2 f ( 2−x2 ) for every x in [−1, 1],
        2. f (0) = 1, and
                     (x)
        3. limx→1− √f1−x exists and is finite.
  Prove that f is unique, and express f (x) in closed form.


  definition putnam_2012_a3_solution :: "real ⇒ real" where
    "putnam_2012_a3_solution ≡ (λx::real. sqrt (1 - x^2))"
  theorem putnam_2012_a3:
    fixes S :: "real set"
    and hf :: "(real ⇒ real) ⇒ bool"
    defines "S ≡ {-1..1}"
    and "hf ≡ (λf::real⇒real. continuous_on S f ∧
      (∀x∈S. f x = ((2 - x^2)/2)*f (x^2/(2 - x^2))) ∧ f 0 = 1 ∧
      (∃y::real. filterlim (λx::real. (f x)/sqrt (1 - x)) (nhds y) (at_left 1)))"
    shows "hf putnam_2012_a3_solution ∧
      (∀f::real⇒real. hf f → (∀x∈S. f x = putnam_2012_a3_solution x))"
    sorry


Figure 11: An Isabelle formalization of Putnam 2012 A3. The mechanism for factoring the solution
out of the theorem statement is similar to that of Lean.


  Putnam 1980 A5. Let P (t) be a nonconstant polynomial with real coefficients. Prove that the
  system of simultaneous equations
                                Z x                 Z x
                           0=       P (t) sin tdt =     P (t) cos tdt
                                   0                   0

  has only finitely many real solutions x.


  From mathcomp Require Import all_algebra all_ssreflect.
  From mathcomp Require Import reals trigo lebesgue_integral lebesgue_measure measure.

  From mathcomp Require Import classical_sets cardinality.

  Set Implicit Arguments.
  Unset Strict Implicit.
  Unset Printing Implicit Defensive.

  Local Open Scope classical_set_scope.
  Local Open Scope ring_scope.

  Variable R : realType.
  Definition mu := [the measure _ _ of @lebesgue_measure R].
  Theorem putnam_1980_a5
      (P : {poly R})
      (Pnonconst : gtn (size P) (1%nat))
      : finite_set [set x : R |
      \int[mu]_(t in [set t : R | 0 <= t <= x]) (fun y => P.[y] * (sin y)) t = 0 /\
      \int[mu]_(t in [set t : R | 0 <= t <= x]) (fun y => P.[y] * (cos y)) t = 0].
  Proof. Admitted.


Figure 12: A Coq formalization of Putnam 1980 A5. This formalization is done using Coquelicot, a
Coq repository outside of the standard library. The Coq equivalent of sorry is Admitted.


                                                 18
  Putnam 2017 B2. Suppose that a positive integer N can be expressed as the sum of k consec-
  utive positive integers
                         N = a + (a + 1) + (a + 2) + · · · + (a + k − 1)
  for k = 2017 but for no other values of k > 1. Considering all positive integers N with this
  property, what is the smallest positive integer a that occurs in any of these expressions?


  From mathcomp Require Import all_ssreflect all_algebra.

  Set Implicit Arguments.
  Unset Strict Implicit.
  Unset Printing Implicit Defensive.

  Local Open Scope ring_scope.

  Definition putnam_2017_b2_solution : nat := 16.
  Theorem putnam_2017_b2 :
      let seq (a : int) (k : nat) := \sum_(0 <= i < k) (a + i%:Z) in
      let valid (a : int) := a > 0 /\ (forall (b : int) (k : nat), b > 0 -> gt k 1 ->
       seq a 2017%nat = seq b k -> k = 2017%nat) in
      valid putnam_2017_b2_solution /\ (forall a, valid a -> a >=
      putnam_2017_b2_solution%:Z).
  Proof. Admitted.


Figure 13: A Coq formalization of Putnam 2017 B2. As the problem requires a numerical witness,
we factor that out using Coq’s syntax for making definitions.




  Putnam 1988 B1. A composite is a product ab with a and b not necessarily distinct integers
  {2, 3, 4, . . . }. Show that every composite is expressible as xy +xz +yz +1 with x, y, z positive
  integers.


  Require Import ZArith Znumtheory Lia.
  Open Scope Z.
  Theorem putnam_1988_b1:
      forall (a : Z), a >= 2 ->
      forall (b : Z), b >= 2 ->
      exists (x y z: Z), x > 0 /\ y > 0 /\ z > 0 /\
      a * b = x * y + y * z + z * x + 1.
  Proof.
      intros a Ha b Hb.
      exists 1, (a - 1), (b - 1).
      split.
      - lia.
      - split.
      + lia.
      + split.
      * lia.
  Qed.


Figure 14: A Coq proof of Putnam 1988 B1 generated through a few-shot invocation of GPT-4. The
proof is similar to that of the Lean version, also discovered by GPT-4. The main difficulty of the
problem is to choose the values of x, y, z given a, b. Once correctly supplied, the remainder of the
proof is routine and can be done with automated methods like lia which handles linear arithmetic.


                                                 19
                                                     theorem mathd_algebra_107
  theorem mathd_numbertheory_85 :
                                                     (x y : R)
    1 * 3^3 + 2 * 3^2 + 2*3 + 2 = 53
                                                     (h0 : x^2 + 8 * x + y^2 - 6 * y = 0)
    := sorry
                                                     : (x + 4)^2 + (y-3)^2 = 5^2 := sorry


Figure 15: Examples of formalizations of easy problems in M INI F2F. While useful for benchmark-
ing straightforward mathematical reasoning in a formal setting, these problems are quite simple
compared to the competition problems present in P UTNAM B ENCH. We note that M INI F2F does
include some formalizations of problems sourced directly from high school competitions, but these
are fewer in number.




  You are proficient at formal theorem-proving in Lean 4. Given a theorem
  ֒→  statement in Lean 4, generate the proof in Lean 4. You can assume that
  ֒→  you have access to Lean's mathlib library.

  The theorem is described in the following format:
  1. The theorem statement using the `[THEOREM]` keyword.
  3. The theorem description ends with the keyword `[END]`.

  Generate a Lean 4 proof for the theorem which starts with the keyword
  ֒→  `[PROOF]` followed by the proof of the theorem. The syntax for Lean 4
  ֒→  is different than that of Lean 3 - premises like "Nat.dvd_mul" and
  ֒→  "Finset.singleton_injective" exist in Lean 4, the equivalent in Lean 3
  ֒→  is "nat.dvd_mul" and "finset.singleton_injective" which DO NOT WORK in
  ֒→  Lean 4. Additionally, you cannot chain tactics into one step using ',' -
  ֒→  this will NOT work - you can use ';' instead but try to avoid such usage
  ֒→  where not necessary! When doing rewrites you MUST wrap the premise in
  ֒→  brackets: "rw [h]". If you want to do multiple rewrites at once you can
  ֒→  do something like "rw [step1, step2, step3]". Always predict one tactic
  ֒→  at a time, though you can predict the "have" tactic and may supply a
  ֒→  proof for it with tactics split by ";". You can provide witnesses to
  ֒→  consecutive existential quantifiers all at once, for example 'use 1, 2,
  ֒→  3' but NOT as a list 'use [1, 2, 3]' - these are not the same things!
  ֒→  You can introduce with "intro" everything you think you can introduce at
  ֒→  once. In Lean 4, you can split apart conjunctions with "constructor" NOT
  ֒→  "split". You should use the "ring" tactic to handle goals that follow
  ֒→  from ring axioms, especially instead of doing a long series of rewrites
  ֒→  or calculations. Similarly, "linarith" can be useful for solving goals
  ֒→  involving linear arithmetic. Do NOT indent tactics, every new line
  ֒→  should not have spaces to start! PLEASE use Lean 4 syntax only! The
  ֒→  proof ends with the keyword `[END]`. Also please DO NOT write `sorry`
  ֒→  in the proof. You can assume that the theorem is provable.

Figure 16: Parts of the “system prompt” used by GPT-4 for Lean 4 evaluations. Due to GPT-4’s
tendency towards producing outputs in Lean 3 syntax, our prompt places special attention towards
preventing such syntactic mistakes. A similar modification is made to COPRA’s system prompt for
Lean 3.




                                               20
  Goals to prove:
  [GOALS]
  [GOAL] 1
  DifferentiableAt R (fun x => g x / hg0 x) 0 → DifferentiableAt R g 0
  [HYPOTHESES] 1
  [HYPOTHESIS] case mpr
  [HYPOTHESIS] f : True
  [HYPOTHESIS] g hg0 : R → R
  [HYPOTHESIS] hcg : hg0 0 6= 0
  [HYPOTHESIS] hfg : ContinuousAt hg0 0
  [HYPOTHESIS] hfg_div : DifferentiableAt R (fun x => g x * hg0 x) 0

  [STEPS]
  [STEP] constructor
  [STEP] intro h
  [STEP] trivial
  [STEP] intros f g hg0 hcg hfg hfg_div

  [INCORRECT STEPS]
  [STEP] apply differentiable_at_of_mul

  [LAST STEP]
  apply differentiable_at.div

  [ERROR MESSAGE]
  error: unknown identifier 'differentiable_at.div'
  [END]

Figure 17: An example of a failed tactic prediction during proof search for Putnam 2011 B2 using
COPRA in Lean 4. GPT-4 predicts a tactic involving the premise “differentiable_at.div,” which
exists in Lean 3, but not Lean 4. Even with the system prompt asserting outputs should involve Lean
4 syntax alone, GPT-4 is not always capable of making the distinction.




  theorem putnam_2001_a1
  (S : Type*)
  [Mul S]
  (hS : ∀ a b : S, (a * b) * a = b)
  : ∀ a b : S, a * (b * a) = b := by
  intro a b
  have h1 : (a * (b * a)) * a = b * a := by
   rw ←[mul_assoc]
   rw [hS]
   rw [hS]
   apply h1


Figure 18: A failed proof generated by few-shot invocation of GPT-4. GPT-4 misunderstands that
the hypothesis [Mul S], which gives an operation ⋆ and asserts it is a binary operation on S, also
asserts associativity of the operation. The tactic rw [←mul_assoc], which performs a rewrite using
the associativity of ⋆, is hence not applicable in this setting.




                                                21
  Putnam 1986 B1. Inscribe a rectangle of base b and height h in a circle of radius one, and
  inscribe an isosceles triangle in the region of the circle cut off by one base of the rectangle. For
  what values of h do the rectangle and triangle have the same area?


  theorem putnam_1986_b1:
  fixes b h :: "real"
  assumes hbh : "b > 0 ∧ h > 0 ∧ b^2 + h^2 = 2^2"
  and areaeq : "b*h = 0.5 * b * (1 - h/2)"
  shows "h = ( 2 / 5 )"
  proof -
  from assms have eq1: "b^2 + h^2 = 4" by simp
    from areaeq have eq2: "b * h = 0.5 * b * (1 - h/2)" by simp
    then have eq3: "b * h = 0.5 * b - 0.25 * b * h" by algebra
    then have eq4: "1.25 * b * h = 0.5 * b" by algebra
    then have eq5: "h = 0.5 / 1.25" using assms(1) by simp
    then show ?thesis by simp
  qed


Figure 19: A successful proof in Isabelle discovered using GPT-4. While the theorem statement
differs from the formalization, which is algebraic, we note that the official solution is also algebraic
and is similar to the generated Isabelle proof.




                                                  22
  Putnam 1995 A1. Let S be a set of real numbers which is closed under multiplication (that is,
  if a and b are in S, then so is ab. Let T and U be disjoint subsets of S whose union is S. Given
  that the product of any three (not necessarily distinct) elements of T is in T and the product of
  any three elements of U is in U , show that at least one of the two subsets T, U is closed under
  multiplication.


  theorem putnam_1995_a1:
    fixes S :: "real set"
      and T U :: "real set"
    assumes hS: "∀a∈S. ∀b∈S. a * b ∈ S"
      and hsub: "T ⊆ S ∧ U ⊆ S"
      and hunion: "(T ∪ U) = S"
      and hdisj: "(T ∩ U) = {}"
      and hT3: "∀a∈T. ∀b∈T. ∀c∈T. a * b * c ∈ T"
      and hU3: "∀a∈U. ∀b∈U. ∀c∈U. a * b * c ∈ U"
    shows "(∀a∈T. ∀b∈T. a * b ∈ T) ∨ (∀a∈U. ∀b∈U. a * b ∈ U)"
  proof (rule ccontr)
    assume "¬ ((∀a∈T. ∀b∈T. a * b ∈ T) ∨ (∀a∈U. ∀b∈U. a * b ∈ U))"
    then have "∃t1∈T. ∃t2∈T. t1 * t2 ∈/ T" "∃u1∈U. ∃u2∈U. u1 * u2 ∈ / U" by auto
    then obtain t1 t2 where t1t2: "t1 ∈ T" "t2 ∈ T" "t1 * t2 ∈ U"
      using hS hunion by blast
    then obtain u1 u2 where u1u2: "u1 ∈ U" "u2 ∈ U" "u1 * u2 ∈ T"
      using ‹¬ ((∀a∈T. ∀b∈T. a * b ∈ T) ∨ (∀a∈U. ∀b∈U. a * b ∈ U))› hS hunion
      by blast
    have "t1 * t2 * t3 ∈ T" if "t3 ∈ T" for t3 using hT3 t1t2(1) t1t2(2) that
      by auto
    then have "t1 * t2 * t3 ∈ U" if "t3 ∈ T" for t3 using t1t2(3) hS that
      by (metis disjoint_iff hU3 hdisj mult.commute u1u2(1) u1u2(2) u1u2(3))
    then have False using hdisj t1t2(1) t1t2(2)
      by (meson disjoint_iff_not_equal hT3)
    then show False by blast
  qed


Figure 20: A successful proof in Isabelle discovered using DSP. In particular, this proof is not found
using a single invocation of sledgehammer, so the sketching mechanism of DSP is crucial for this
problem. We note that the DSP pipeline involves using an LLM (GPT-4) to synthesize an informal
proof which is translated into a sketch in Isabelle - this can potentially be a source of indirect dataset
contamination, as we cannot ensure the informal proofs are not present in GPT-4’s training data.




                                                   23
  theorem putnam_1971_b1:
    fixes Smul :: "'S ⇒ 'S ⇒ 'S" (infixl "*" 70)
    assumes hself: "∀x::'S. x * x = x"
      and h2: "∀x y z::'S. (x * y) * z = (y * z) * x"
    shows "∀x y z::'S. (x * y) * z = x * (y * z) ∧ x * y = y * x"
  proof -
    have comm: "∀x y::'S. x * y = y * x"
    proof
      fix x y :: 'S
      have "(x * y) * x = (y * x) * x" using h2 by blast (* sledgehammer *)
      also have "... = y * x" using hself by (metis h2) (* sledgehammer *)
      finally have "(x * y) * x = y * x" by simp (* sledgehammer *)
      then have "x * y = y * x" using hself by (metis h2) (* sledgehammer *)
      thus "x * y = y * x" by simp
    qed
    have assoc: "∀x y z::'S. (x * y) * z = x * (y * z)"
    proof
      fix x y z :: 'S
      have "(x * y) * z = (y * z) * x" using h2 sledgehammer
      also have "... = x * (y * z)" using comm sledgehammer
      finally show "(x * y) * z = x * (y * z)" by simp
    qed
    show "∀x y z::'S. (x * y) * z = x * (y * z) ∧ x * y = y * x"
      using assoc comm by simp
  qed


Figure 21: An erroneous generation produced by DSP for Putnam 1971 B1. While a single invoca-
tion of Sledgehammer can prove this problem, the formal sketch generated in the pipeline is much
more complex and is erroneous, leading to a failed proof attempt.




  theorem putnam_1971_b1:
    fixes Smul :: "'S ⇒ 'S ⇒ 'S" (infixl "*" 70)
    assumes hself: "∀x::'S. x * x = x"
    and h2: "∀x y z::'S. (x * y) * z = (y * z) * x"
    shows "∀x y z::'S. (x * y) * z = x * (y * z) ∧ x * y = y * x"



  theorem putnam_2012_a2:
    fixes Smul :: "'S ⇒'S ⇒ 'S" (infixl "*" 70)
    and a b c :: 'S
    assumes Smulasg: "abel_semigroup Smul"
    and hS: "∀x y::'S. ∃z::'S. x * z = y"
    and habc: "a * c = b * c"
  shows "a = b"


Figure 22: The other two Isabelle formalizations solved with invocations of Sledgehammer. We note
that the problems Sledgehammer was capable of solving are all problems involving binary operations
on sets. It is not surprising that SMT solvers are capable of solving such problems, which do not
require reasoning about complicated objects.




                                               24
  Goals to prove:
  [GOALS]
  [GOAL] 1
  1 > 0 /\
  1 > 0 /\
  a * b - 1 > 0 /\ a * b = 1 * 1 + 1 * (a * b - 1) + (a * b - 1) * 1 + 1
  [HYPOTHESES] 1
  [HYPOTHESIS] a : Z
  [HYPOTHESIS] Ha : a >= 2
  [HYPOTHESIS] b : Z
  [HYPOTHESIS] Hb : b >= 2

  [STEPS]
  [STEP] intros a Ha b Hb.

  [LAST STEP]
  exists 1, 1, (a * b - 1).

  [SUCCESS]
  [END]
  ...
  Goals to prove: # Step 32 of Search
  [GOALS]
  [GOAL] 1
  a - 1 > 0 /\
  1 > 0 /\
  b - 1 > 0 /\ a * b = (a - 1) * 1 + 1 * (b - 1) + (b - 1) * (a - 1) + 1
  [HYPOTHESES] 1
  [HYPOTHESIS] a : Z
  [HYPOTHESIS] Ha : a >= 2
  [HYPOTHESIS] b : Z
  [HYPOTHESIS] Hb : b >= 2

  [STEPS]
  [STEP] intros a Ha b Hb.

  [LAST STEP]
  exists (a - 1), 1, (b - 1).

  [SUCCESS]
  [END]

Figure 23: Early in COPRA’s attempt on Putnam 1988 B1, an incorrect prediction of x, y, z given
a, b is made, which dooms that path of search as the most crucial step is the correct choice. Later,
at step 32 of search, COPRA backtracks and then successfully predicts a correct choice for x, y, z.
Once this step is generated, the remainder of the proof is straightforward.




                                                25
